The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Girl's Own Paper, Vol. XX, No. 1020,
July 15, 1899, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Girl's Own Paper, Vol. XX, No. 1020, July 15, 1899

Author: Various

Release Date: May 9, 2020 [EBook #62074]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GIRL'S OWN PAPER, JULY 15, 1899 ***




Produced by Susan Skinner, Chris Curnow, Pamela Patten and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
https://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: THE GIRL’S OWN PAPER

VOL. XX.—NO. 1020.]      JULY 15, 1899.      [PRICE ONE PENNY.]




A LESSON IN LOVE.

BY FREDERICK LANGBRIDGE.

[Illustration]

_All rights reserved._]


    She was like the hawthorn snow—
      Like a furry kitten—
    Like a cherry’s melting glow
      Ere a beak hath bitten.
    She was laugh and rosy pout,
      Beam and dew together;
    Green was all the vale about—
      It was April weather.
        “Do, do, do’e, do!”
          Hark, the dove is cooing!
        All the sky is tender blue,
          All the world is wooing.

    Little sunbeams kissed her face
      Every time they spied her:
    “O to take a sunbeam’s place!”
      Mused the boy beside her.
    He would die to kiss her shoe,
      Wrought of fairy leather;
    And he did as lovers do—
      Talked about the weather.
        “Do, do, do’e, do!”
          Hark, the dove is cooing!
        All the sky is tender blue,
          All the world is wooing.

    Daisy let her lashes fall—
      All the day was darkling:
    Yet beneath their fringèd pall
      Mirthful eyes were sparkling.
    From the poplar overhead
      Fluttered down a feather:
    “Hear the doves,” she meekly said,
      “Talking of the weather!”
        “Do, do, do’e, do!”
          All the doves are cooing!
        Fell the boy a-pleading too—
          Happy was the wooing.




THE HOUSE WITH THE VERANDAH.

BY ISABELLA FYVIE MAYO, Author of “Other People’s Stairs,” “Her Object
in Life,” etc.


CHAPTER XVI.

A GLINT OF SUNSHINE.

“Mr. Black,” said Lucy, speaking rather suddenly after her pause, “Miss
Latimer and I are keeping house together just now, and we are hopeful
of securing the services of a highly respectable elderly woman, who
will keep things neat and punctual. Would you care to come and live
here for the present, paying me precisely what you have paid Mrs. Mott?”

“Oh, Mrs. Challoner,” cried the lad, “how can you propose such a
delightful thing! It is far too good to be true! To come to a house
like this, so near the office too, and your home! It would be a real
kindness in you to do such a thing: but it would not be fair—you
oughtn’t to think of it!”

“Mr. Black,” said Lucy, “I think it may suit you very well indeed;
but the kindness and the service will not be all on my side. In the
event of all manner of evil chances—burglaries or chimney fires, for
instance,” she interpolated with a smile, “we shall have a reliable and
friendly house-mate. See how useful you were to me, and how you kept up
our spirits on that terrible Christmas Day! But most especially, Mr.
Black, there will be somebody else besides me for Hughie to talk to,
and perhaps play with sometimes.” Her lip trembled as she spoke. It was
hard to think she herself could not suffice for her own child. But she
was too true a mother to limit her little boy’s enjoyments to her own
failing powers, no longer equal to provide them.

“I come home so tired sometimes,” she said, “that I fear I may put a
damper on Hugh’s prattle, or fail him in his romps. Miss Latimer, too,
is very tired, and she is growing old. It would be such a comfort to
feel I had a young friend’s help to fall back upon at a pinch. It might
not happen often. It may not happen at all, because it will be such a
restful relief to know there is somebody to fall back on. I shall take
no mean advantage of your presence in this matter,” she added, with an
April smile. “I think you may trust me for that!”

“Oh, Mrs. Challoner,” said Tom, “that’s just what a fellow misses when
he isn’t at home; there’s nobody expects anything from him, and he gets
like a working and feeding and eating machine. I’m sure I’ll be only
too delighted to be of any use I can. As for playing with Hugh, we’ll
have drill and all sorts of larks. And he can go for a run with me in
the evenings, whenever you don’t want to walk! To think of getting
into a home such as this! How thankful mother will be! She’s beginning
to worry about the matter, for though I’ve made light of it to her, she
seemed to guess how it would be.”

So it was settled. Then Clementina Gillespie duly kept the appointment
Mrs. Challoner made with her. Her appearance well supported her
introduction by Mrs. Bray’s faithful Rachel. Certainly she had not
the sonsie charm of the delusive Mrs. Morison. Quite the reverse.
Clementina’s face had no resemblance to a winter apple lying in the
frost. She was pale and thin, almost cadaverous-looking, with a
well-marked aquiline nose and a long jaw. In place of Mrs. Morison’s
white frills and cosy wraps, she was clad in what she called her
“mournings,” without a dash of white about her. Lucy at once noticed
the soft Highland voice, with its strange Celtic wailing. But
Clementina Gillespie’s manner and appearance were alike “superior.”
Indeed, there was a kind of severe, decayed high-breeding and elegance
about her.

“Four people instead of three, ma’am,” she said, when Lucy told her
that her household was to be joined by a youth of seventeen. “It will
make no differ to me, whatever. I shall have nothing to do but to try
to do my best for you all. And, indeed, the young gentleman will be a
blessing and a safeguard in the house, for I do think this Babylon has
terrible risks for a household of lone women.”

“There is not so much danger as people from country places are apt
to imagine,” Lucy hastened to reassure her, fearful lest terrors of
“Babylon” should drive her back to her native fastnesses. “The young
gentleman will sleep in the little room behind the dining-room, Miss
Latimer, I and my little boy are on the first floor, and your bedroom
is in the attic, so you see burglars will have to pass us all before
they can get to you,” she added playfully.

Clementina Gillespie did not smile. “They might come in by the roof,”
she said. “I hear they often do. What is fated will happen. But I am
not afraid, whatever.”

“Of course not,” Lucy replied. “If you have lived in a lonely house on
a hillside, you are sure to be a brave woman. It must be rather eerie
in such places on wild, dark, winter nights.”

“The winds and the darkness are the servants of the Almighty,” returned
the Highland woman. “But wherever there be peoples, there be bad
peoples.”

“Ay, but good ones also,” said Lucy. “And all people are in God’s hand,
as well as all forces of nature.”

Clementina Gillespie did not answer, and Lucy somehow felt that she did
not quite agree. It struck her, however, that conversation having taken
such a turn was a sufficient proof that this person was on a different
intellectual level from all the other servants she had seen lately.
It was equally clear that if Clementina were never to be more cheerful
than she was at present, she might be a little depressing. Yet Lucy
recollected that she had come from a father’s grave and a broken-up
home, and was a stranger in surroundings utterly alien to her previous
ways and thoughts. Besides there would be Tom to keep the house alive
with mirth and laughter.

Lucy was not sorry to be able to ask Jane Smith whether it would
put her to any inconvenience to leave before her “notice month” had
expired, or whether she would like to do so. Of course, in either case
she would get her wage the same, but badly as the girl had behaved,
Lucy was reluctant to evict her if the home was of any importance to
her.

“Oh, no, mum, I’ll go to-morrow if you like, mum,” was Jane’s answer.
“I’ve got a place waiting for me the minute you can do without me.
They’ll be glad to have me so soon.”

Lucy allowed herself to ask no question then. Nobody had inquired about
Jane’s character. But if she had taken a place in the country it might
be in her own village, and might have been secured by some other line
of introduction. But when the day of departure came, Lucy felt it to
be her duty as a mistress to know where the girl was going. So she
inquired gently—

“Have you far to go, Jane?”

“No, mum,” was the curt answer, with no information vouchsafed.

“Shall you want a cab? Or are your boxes to be called for by the
railway people?” Lucy persisted.

“I don’t want no cab, mum. A friend of mine’s coming to give me a hand.
You needn’t trouble about me, mum.”

Lucy and Hugh were seated at their tea, when the black-bearded man came
whistling up the street and descended the area steps. Jane was waiting
for him. One or two loud laughs were heard, followed by bumping sounds.
He had laden himself with Jane’s big trunk, and she followed with a tin
box and a brown paper parcel. She had not relented, nor come to the
parlour even for a civil “Good evening.” As she followed her trunk and
its bearer, she turned and looked in at the dining-room window with a
mocking smile.

The group crossed the street, but paused a few yards lower down. There
was a house whose door was open, and there they went in. That was where
Jane had found a place! That was the “country situation” in favour of
which she had given her abrupt notice! It was Mrs. Challoner’s own
neighbours who had received her servant without the slightest reference
to her. Lucy felt stung. She knew nothing of these people, except
that their name was Marvel, and that the family seemed to consist
of father, mother, and two or three daughters. She had constantly
seen them going out, in evening dress, in cabs. But how discourteous
was their present action! If, as it seemed, they had made up their
minds to take Jane under any circumstances, they might at least have
made formal recognition of her last employer’s existence. The only
inference Lucy could draw was that her late servant had managed to put
her so thoroughly in the wrong that the Marvels believed hers to be
no standard to which they need refer, and herself a person to whom no
civility was due.

It vexed Lucy to find how this thought hurt her. She knew that, in
ordinary parlance, she “ought to be above feeling such things.” Once
upon a time she would have laughed at such a matter as affecting
herself, though she might have recognised its significance socially.
She could not understand her greater weakness now. She said to herself
that often in her life she had found pleasure in setting herself
harder tasks than any she was now accomplishing; for she had taken
youth’s athletic joy in pedestrian feats and in working against time.
She was still unable to realise that it is one thing to court fatigue
and excitement with unimpaired vigour and high-strung nerves, and
quite another matter to accept these when one is already worn out
with anxieties and fears. Also that it is one thing to live even the
most laborious days in at atmosphere of love and appreciation, and
another to toil in so much risk of carping and misunderstanding that
one is thankful if one can but escape notice altogether. There is
repose and refreshment beforehand in the very consciousness that there
exists somebody who will say presently, “You must rest; you must have
a holiday;” and who possesses both the will and the power to enforce
the words, just as we often feel so much assurance in an outstretched
helping hand, that we can jump safely, without availing ourself of its
help.

Fond mother Lucy could not be expected to understand that there
had been a perpetual strain in having for so long had no household
companionship but that of her little laddie. If it is tiring to
stretch ever upwards to minds above our own, speaking of things we
do not understand, and in a language we scarcely know, it is equally
exhausting to the mind to be for ever stooping, and never able fully to
express its deepest thoughts and feelings.

There was a strain, too, in Lucy’s terror lest Hugh should lack
something in being thrown wholly upon her failing resources; she would
not rest if she thought he wanted a game; she would not even relapse
into brief silences such as she often craved. No, she had goaded
herself on to chatter, and make fun, and tell stories!

Then there had been nobody to remember and provide the little
dainties—the pleasant table-surprises which do so much to stimulate a
failing appetite. Until Miss Latimer had come to stay, all that Lucy
cared for was that Hugh should get his milk, and his puddings, and his
fruit. And somehow she herself turned from all these. And there was
nothing tempting in their stead.

Also Lucy had started on her new laborious, lonely life after the agony
of Charlie’s illness and the supreme effort made for his departure. She
had been at the very bottom of her physical powers and nervous energy.
For six months she had been steadily giving out and taking nothing in;
nothing but nameless little worries had filled in the interstices of
work and anxiety.

Looking in her glass, she could see her face was thin and wan; she
noticed one or two silver threads in her hair. Anybody else looking
so, she would know to be ill, but she would not own any breakdown in
herself. Ill! Was not her task already half accomplished, and had not
Charlie’s journey prospered beyond their hopes?

If only she had been able to enjoy one week of the bracing breezes off
Deal, and of the wholesome presence of Mrs. May! If only the Brands’
house had been one where she was sure to find hearty welcome, and where
she could have spoken out all the imaginings and horrors that began
to haunt her. But from nobody in the world was it more necessary to
hide her trembling spirits and collapsing forces than from her sister
Florence, who would have seen in them only an occasion for criticism
and censure, and for counsels for whose carrying out she would offer no
furtherance.

It was at this time that Lucy first had a dream—which she often had
afterwards—and which, worse still, became a sort of waking vision,
which would open before her if ever she dared to remain for one moment
without active occupation for brain or hand.

In that sleeping dream, and in that waking “vision,” she saw herself
walking on a dreary road, between a dead wall and an open wold. Night
was falling fast; wind and rain were beating upon her; her limbs were
failing, and still she struggled on, and as she went, she seemed to
wail, “Alone! Alone! Alone!”

The dream always broke off there; the vision went no further. She never
knew how it ended.

Two days after Jane Smith’s exit and Clementina’s in-coming, Tom Black
arrived. Miss Latimer and Lucy welcomed his cheery presence. Clementina
certainly seemed highly respectable, and set about her work as one
who wished to do her duty conscientiously. But her very presence was
depressing. Her necessary sentences always ended with a sigh, and the
depth of her mourning-raiment was never alleviated while she went about
her household tasks. Indeed, one could scarcely fancy her in a cheerful
lilac print. Of course, she had not worn caps on her father’s croft,
and Lucy did not dream of suggesting them to her, though she could not
help feeling that it would have been a joyful relief to see a white
lace butterfly crowning the smooth black hair which seemed as much in
mourning as all the rest of Clementina.

The only little personalities which Clementina contributed to the
kitchen furniture were three memorial cards: one yellow and almost
undecipherable with age, the other in commemoration of the piper, Niel
Gillespie, the friend of Rachel’s dead lover; the newest, a tribute
to the recently deceased father; also she possessed a piece of quaint
and heavy pottery, the figures of two children kneeling beside a grave
under a weeping willow, and a dim old print, “The Death of Abel,” in a
thick black frame.

Tom brought quite a different order of things into the house. The
pictures he hung up in his bedroom were of Skye terriers hopelessly
watching butterflies, kittens playing with a ball, a group of
cricketers on the green of his native place. He had his mother’s
portrait, too, set up in a dainty little frame, on which he had
evidently lavished some pocket-money. He brought it into the
dining-room to show Lucy, and Lucy, with one moment’s reflection, asked
him whether he would not like to keep it there, where he would pass his
waking hours. “Oh, yes, certainly, Tom would like it, only wouldn’t
Mrs. Challoner feel——” but while he was yet speaking, Lucy had taken it
from his hand, and had found room for it on the mantelshelf. Her own
father’s portrait and Charlie’s were there already. There had been one
of herself and little Hugh, but her husband had taken that away with
him. Lucy slipped Mrs. Black’s picture into the empty place. Clementina
crooned eerie Gaelic songs in the kitchen. Tom went about the house
singing—

    “For a-hunting we will go!”

It is, perhaps, needless to say in which song Hugh learned to join.
Indeed, the oddest thing about Clementina was that Hugh did not seem to
like her—no, not though she always sent up a special little pie-cake
for him whenever there was a pie, and though if her face ever wore
a smile, that smile was put on for him. Alas, little Hugh had been
so fond of the ill-starred Jessie Morison! It seemed a pity that
such proven moral instability should have charms which this manifold
respectability had not!

Lucy had not seen or heard from the Brands for some time. Such silences
were not unusual between the two households, unless something special
was going forward. Lucy knew that her sister had been paying some
country-house visits, and felt sure she should hear from her when she
came home to make her preparations for the annual family migration to
the seaside.

The summer holidays began at the Institute. Of course, it was
impossible for Lucy or Miss Latimer to think of leaving home when they
had just received a strange servant and a guest. Still, the holidays
meant considerable relaxation. Hugh had his holidays, too, and he and
his mother, and sometimes Miss Latimer, too, used to go off together to
Hampstead or Highgate or Greenwich, where he could gather wild flowers
and play about, while she found quaint or pretty “bits” for sketches.
Then, when they came home, there was Tom with funny stories about
people and events at the office, or the “latest news” of the evening.
The domestic group, with their varied ages and developments, made, as
it were, a pretty household chime—the child’s exuberant inconsequence
melting into Tom’s boyish enthusiasms, and those rising towards Lucy’s
serious ideals and soberer outlook on life, and Miss Latimer’s gentle
pathos. Of course, to old household loves and loyalties bred from years
of mutual experience, this was but as a sketch is to a masterpiece. But
it was good so far as it went. And every masterpiece has been but a
sketch once!

It was certainly a lovely gleam of peace and content, but Lucy knew
that for her its brightness was derived from her consciousness that
Charlie, in all the elation of renewed health, might now be considered
fairly on his homeward way! His last letter, which had arrived three
days after Tom Black’s in-coming, had come from Hong Kong, whither
Captain Grant had unexpectedly steered his course, owing to the
unforeseen demands of a promising branch of business. They would
leave that port a day or two after the letter was posted, and might
reasonably expect to arrive at Vancouver well within the year of
Charlie’s proposed absence. But the _Slains Castle_ herself, after
despatching her business at the Canadian port, would have to return
home all round by Cape Horn, thus not only unconscionably prolonging
her voyage, but doing this through stormy seas at an inclement season.
Captain Grant, however, had declared that he had never had such a
fortunate voyage, that Charlie had been such a “luck” passenger, and
that as circumstances had broken his own promise that his ship would
not be away more than a year, so on his side he would release Charlie
at Vancouver, rebating from the hundred guinea fee enough to pay for
Charlie’s land journey by the Pacific Railway and the short Atlantic
voyage by a liner from New York.

“I begin to feel that we may expect to keep our next Christmas
together,” wrote Charlie, “and I dared hardly form that hope while my
return within that time lay wholly with a sailing-vessel, on which
I find two or three weeks ‘more or less’ are matters of no account
whatever. Now, little woman, you and I must prepare for one more long
silence. We may touch at some of the islands of the North Pacific, and
then you shall get a missive; but again we may not, and then your next
letter will hail from Vancouver, and I myself shall arrive on the back
of it—like a postscript! I don’t need to ask you to let me have letters
waiting at Vancouver. Write there regularly whenever you feel inclined
to have a chat with your old man, and then, whether I arrive sooner or
later, I shall have a nice sequence of sweet letters to keep me company
on my lonely rush across North America and the Atlantic. Remember, my
wifie, that before you receive this, the distance between us will be
actually lessening day by day. Here’s to our happy meeting hour! And
God bless my brave little wife!”

Of course Lucy’s heart rose high. The worst was now over, and in the
glow of renewed joy she began to think it had not been so very bad.
As by magic the weariness and weight dropped from her feet, her voice
recovered its full, rich timbre, her eyes shone with fresh light. She
said to herself that she had not been overworn or ill after all—“only
anxious and depressed.” And now what she had to do was to banish the
thin wanness of her face before Charlie came home. As for the silvery
hairs—they must stay. But she said to herself that there is beauty
in silvery hairs, and she was not at all sorry to stand proven as no
longer girl or bride, but as woman and matron, with every right to
think and to act for herself and for others.

She was still going cheerily in the light cast by Charlie’s letter,
and though she had already eagerly written to Vancouver, she had not
begun to feel the damping effect of the inevitable silence of the North
Pacific, when an epistle came from Florence.

    “DEAREST LU,—I am home from my visits, and am very busy packing us
    all off for Scarborough. Can’t get round to see you at any hours I
    am likely to find you in Pelham Street.” (She had quite forgotten
    the holidays!) “Won’t you come over to me here? Please, do! Come
    to-morrow, as early as you can in the afternoon, and stay to
    dinner and for the evening. Please wire reply. We expect only one
    or two friends. The change will do you good. I don’t invite Hugh
    too, because I want you to stay, and I know you wouldn’t keep him
    out in the night air. Surely you can leave him at home _for once_!
    And do remember I’m your only sister, and have got such a lot of
    things to show you. I’ve told Jem I’m writing to you; _don’t_
    let him say you pay no attention to my invitations! (He has said
    that—Jem can be nasty sometimes, though he’s always so polite to
    you!) _Do come!_

        “From your loving sister,
            “FLO BRAND.

    “P.S.—I suppose you are always getting the best of good news from
    the other side of the sea?”

That palpable “afterthought” nearly made Lucy flatly decline the
appeal. Yet she hesitated. This was only “Florence’s way,” and she
might have done just the same had the original motive of her letter
been inquiry after her brother-in-law and not a mere invitation to
her sister. Lucy wanted to cherish family affection, so far as it was
possible; and then she could well believe that Jem “could be nasty.”
Poor Flo!

So she got as far as to mention her invitation to her little household
at tea-time.

“Of course you’ll go,” said Miss Latimer. “It will do you a world of
good.”

“Hugh and I will get on grandly while you are away,” said Tom. “We’ve
got a plan laid out already for some evening ‘when mamma is busy,’ but
now it shall be when ‘mamma is gone to a party.’”

“I can’t go very early,” observed Lucy, hesitating, “for I sha’n’t
leave home before you come from the office.”

“It’s a slack time, and I’ll get away sharp,” returned Tom, while
Hugh’s face, which had clouded, cleared, and he danced to and fro
between his mother and his friend.

So Lucy wrote to Florence, and told her she might expect to see her
between five and six next evening.

(_To be continued._)




OUR LILY GARDEN.

PRACTICAL AIDS TO THE CULTURE OF LILIES.

BY CHARLES PETERS.


A visit to the royal gardens at Kew is always a pleasant holiday. There
is so much to see and admire, and so very much of what is quite new and
unexpected, that all lovers of flowers must look both forward to and
backwards at their visits to England’s greatest garden.

We remember strolling into the gardens on a June day last year. The
weather was fine and warm, and the gardens were at their very best.
We had been into the various greenhouses; had duly admired the airy
lightness of the filmy ferns; had marvelled at the stalky palm or the
ridiculous cactus (one of the latter we can never forget, for it bore
a great pink blossom on what might have been mistaken for a savage’s
club!) We had seen the great leaves of the Victoria lily, with its
huge flower-bud not yet open; we had viewed with interest the curious
sacred bean, and had been half-stifled in the dense atmosphere of the
tropical orchid house. But it was not among the rare productions of the
tropics; it was not in the greenhouse in which the choicest of flowers
are exhibited in tasteful combination; it was not among the curious and
beautiful orchids that the finest flower of June was to be seen.

No! The finest plant which flowered in Kew in that June was to be found
in an open bed behind the great palm-house. On turning towards the
rosery when leaving the tropical palm-house, our attention was arrested
by a sheet of dazzling gold. We approached the spot and found that the
object which had brought us thither was a bed of the great Caucasian
lily or _Lilium Monodelphum_.

There was nothing in any part of the gardens to equal this bed of
homely, hardy lilies. It was perfectly lovely! The great yellow bells
hanging in pyramidal masses were as elegant as they were gorgeous, and
had the plant been growing in a hot-house it would have been looked
upon as one of the choicest productions of the tropics.

It was by no means the first time that we had seen this lily; but never
before had we seen it in such perfection. Each flower-spike was perfect
and bore from two to thirty blossoms.

Of all the Martagons, _L. Monodelphum_ and its varieties is
unquestionably the finest. Indeed, in none of the groups of lilies
will you find more than two or three which will beat this species for
splendour.

It is in the higher reaches of the Caucasus and the western parts of
Persia that this lily is at home. And surely there can be but few
finer sights in nature than a great mass of these lilies growing on a
hill-side.

_Lilium Monodelphum_ is one of the most characteristic of all the
lilies. It grows to the height of four or five feet and bears a great
pyramid of large, bright, canary-coloured blossoms, tinged with purple
at the base and slightly spotted with black. The pollen is yellow.
Though this lily is placed with the Martagons, it has but little in
common with the lilies we considered last month. The flowers strongly
recall _Lilium Nepaulense_. They are very long and but slightly
recurved, hanging downwards like yellow bells and swaying gently in the
breeze. This plant has a very strong scent, which, though pleasant in
the open ground, is intolerable in a room.

This is one of the few lilies which bear seed freely in England. In
some seasons every blossom will be succeeded by a long six-sided pod.
The seed, however, takes very long to grow.

In many ways _L. Monodelphum_ resembles _L. Auratum_. One of these ways
is the extreme variability to which both are subject.

The colour of this species is usually of a bright canary yellow; but we
have seen specimens of a very pale lemon colour with very few spots.
Another not uncommon variety has deep almost saffron-coloured blossoms.

Then there is great variety in the size and number of the spots. One
variety, called _Szovitzianum_, is very freely spotted, while the type
is often quite free from spots.

The colour of the pollen is also variable. In _Szovitzianum_ it is
chocolate colour, whilst in the other varieties it is yellow.

Even the shape of the flowers is variable, some varieties having
blossoms far more recurved than others.

It is usual to divide the various varieties of _L. Monodelphum_ under
two heads. The first contains the typical or monodelphous forms. Here
the blossoms are but little recurved, of a deep yellow, with yellow
anthers. These varieties are said to flower two or three weeks before
the second group; but we have not observed any difference in this
respect.

The second or _Szovitzianum_ group produces fewer flowers of very
variable colour, but richly spotted with black. The pollen is chocolate
colour, and the blossoms are more recurved. The flower buds are also
visible as soon as the shoot is above ground, whereas in the former
group the buds are enclosed till the lily is two or three feet high.

Unless the soil of your garden is exactly suited to it, you will find
that _L. Monodelphum_ is by no means an easy flower to grow. But surely
its extreme beauty is sufficient inducement to give a considerable
amount of trouble to establish this fine plant. And when you have once
succeeded in making it at home, it will not give you much further
trouble, for it is perfectly hardy and increases moderately when it
once gets a fair start.

[Illustration: A PRESENT FOR FRIENDS.]

Rarely, if ever, does this lily do well during the first and second
years after it has been shifted into new surroundings. It will come
up right enough the first years, but the whole shoot will suddenly
die down about the middle of May. What causes this queer behaviour we
really cannot say.

_L. Monodelphum_ wants a very heavy loam with a little clay in it.
The loam must be of great depth, and should, if possible, rest on a
chalky base. A little lime should be added to the soil, but peat should
be excluded and sand should only be placed round the bulb. When the
flower-buds show, a good thick top-dressing of old stable manure may be
applied with advantage.

This lily should never be disturbed when once it has done well. It is
better to place the bulbs very deep, say eighteen inches or so below
the surface, and then the supernatant soil can be thoroughly dug and
enriched every winter.

As a pot plant, this lily rarely does well, for it is almost impossible
to give it sufficient depth of earth in a pot.

The nearest ally to _L. Monodelphum_ is the very rare _L. Polyphyllum_.
This lily is extremely beautiful, but is so uncommon that but few of
our readers are likely to have seen it. We have only once seen it
ourselves, and have never been able to obtain a bulb.

The bulb of this species is totally different from any other. It is
long and thin, being composed of numerous long lance-shaped scales. As
far as we know, the bulb is always pure white.

In growth this lily resembles the last, but it rarely reaches a greater
height than three feet.

The flowers are longer but more reflexed than are those of _L.
Monodelphum_. They are of a beautiful creamy-white colour, curiously
streaked with dark purple markings.

It was formerly grown under the name of _Fritillaria Polyphylla_,
but that it is truly a lily is unquestionable. It is a native of the
Himalayas, and we should think that its culture ought to be similar to
that of _L. Giganteum_ from the same region. It is said to be perfectly
hardy.

The North American Continent has given us many species of lilies. Up
to the present we have only described three: _L. Washingtonianum_, _L.
Parryi_, and _L. Philadelphicum_. These three lilies are certainly very
different from any that the Old Continent has given us. But we now meet
with ten species, very nearly allied, and yet in no way resembling any
others.

These are the swamp lilies, a sub-section of the Martagons, the ten
members of which are all confined to North America. And they are a very
characteristic group of lilies.

In most of these species the bulb is annual, being produced at the
extremity of a thick perennial rhizome. Why all the American lilies
(except three) should bear rhizomes and annual bulbs, while all the Old
World species bear perennial bulbs without rhizomes we cannot say, but
there must be some important reason to account for it.

There is only one American lily which bears a globose bulb in any way
like the ordinary bulbs of the Eastern species. This lily is _Lilium
Columbianum_, a perfect little gem in its way.

In all the swamp lilies, the leaves are arranged in whorls, the stems
are tall and slender, and the blossoms are nodding, only slightly
recurved, and of a yellow or orange colour, usually spotted more or
less thickly with black or purple.

The following are the ten species of swamp lilies, together with the
districts from which they hail:—

    1.  _Canadense_, North-East America.
    2.  _Superbum_, Canada to Georgia.
    3.  _Parvum_, Western United States.
    4.  _Maritimum_, Coast of California.
    5.  _Roezlii_, Rocky Mountains.
    6.  _Grayi_, (?)
    7.  _Pardalinum_, California.
    8.  _Californicum_, California.
    9.  _Columbianum_, Oregon.
    10. _Humboldti_, Sierra Nevada, Cal.

By some authorities _L. Parvum_, _L. Maritimum_, _L. Roezlii_ and _L.
Grayi_ are considered to be merely varieties of _L. Canadense_; and _L.
Californicum_ is said to be only a variation from _L. Pardalinum_, but
we prefer to consider them as separate species.

And there are some authors who consider _Lilium Bolanderi_, _L.
Pardalinum Michauxi_, _L. Pardalinum Warei_ and others, which we
consider to be merely varieties, to be distinct species.

The culture of the swamp lilies is perfectly simple, and if attention
is paid to one or two details, failure is extremely improbable.

The swamp lilies want peat; they will grow in a mixture of peat and
sand. But to thoroughly establish them a compost of peat, leaf-mould
and sand should be used. If to this can be added the dried mud from the
bottom of a ditch, so much the better. These lilies are always thirsty,
and can never get too much water. They like a shady swampy spot, some
of them preferring the drier banks of streams. The bulb must be handled
with great care, for both the bulb itself and the rhizome are very
tender, and the numerous thick fleshy scales which compose them are
readily detached by rough handling.

To all the above rules for growing the swamp lilies, _L. Humboldti_ and
_L. Columbianum_ are exceptions.

By far the best known of this group of lilies is _Lilium Canadense_,
the Canada Lily. This is the only one of the group which can be
considered as an old garden plant. It has been grown in England now for
a long time, and was the fifth lily to be cultivated in our island.

This lily is a very pretty flower, not gorgeous nor pretentious as are
so many of the genus, but quiet and homely. It grows about four feet
high; the stem is very slender, and the leaves are whorled. In the
middle of summer it bears from three to fifteen blossoms like small
stars. They are bright orange in colour, thickly spotted with deep
purple, and about an inch and a half across. Their chief beauty lies in
the way they hang, for they are very gracefully swung. The segments are
not reflexed, and the plant more nearly resembles the _Eulirions_ than
it does the typical Martagons.

The lily is subject to great variety, especially in the colour of the
blossoms, which vary from lemon yellow to brick red. There is a great
number of named varieties, but they are all more or less inconstant. By
some authorities nearly all the other swamp lilies are considered to be
merely variations from _Lilium Canadense_.

Although, as we have said, the _Canada_ lily has long been cultivated
in England, it does not always take kindly to our soil, and very often
it speedily degenerates, and in a few years disappears. But if the soil
is really to its liking, it will often flourish in England. Like so
many of its congeners, it is very impatient of removal, and when once
established it should be left alone.

A fitting companion to the last, but of greater vigour and considerably
superior dimensions is the _Lilium Superbum_ of the United States of
America.

This species is often confused with the last, but it can readily
be distinguished by the form of its bulb and rhizome; its greater
vigour and more robust growth; the shape of the flower buds, which is
triangular in _L. Canadense_, and rounded in _L. Superbum_; and by the
blossoms themselves, which are far larger, very revolute and marked
with a green star formed by the green ribs of the segments. In this
respect _L. Superbum_ resembles _L. Speciosum_. It also produces more
blossoms than does _L. Canadense_, and flowers later in the season.

The root of this lily is typical of those species which bear annual
bulbs and perennial rhizomes. The bulb is small, about as large as a
walnut, composed of thick, short, fleshy scales, very closely packed
together, but easily detached by a rough hand. It closely resembles a
young fir-cone, but is more spherical. The rhizome or sucker is about
as thick as a man’s little finger, and from one to four inches long. It
is hard, but brittle, and regularly dotted with small scales.

As far as we have been able to follow the life history of the
underground portions of rhizome rooted lilies, we have come to the
conclusion that in all the bulbs are annual and are produced in the
early autumn when the flower spike is dying. It is usually stated that
in some species, _i.e._, _L. Canadense_, the bulbs are annual; but in
other species, such as _L. Superbum_, the bulbs are perennial. Perhaps
this is usually the case, but it certainly is not so with our lilies.
We do not say that the old bulb is entirely destroyed when once it has
flowered; a little nucleus is left which sometimes develops afresh into
a new bulb. But the tendency of all the American lilies is to run along
under the ground, shifting their position every year.

The flowers of _L. Superbum_ are numerous. They much resemble those of
_L. Canadense_, but are larger, more recurved, and less graceful. They
also have the curious green star above referred to. This alone is quite
sufficient to distinguish the species from the other swamp lilies.

It is a fine lily, and of course a fine plant, but it is not superb,
anymore than _L. Elegans_ is elegant.

The culture is the same as that of _L. Canadense_. It is, however, a
much more satisfactory species to grow.

_Lilium Parvum_, the little lily, is a graceful plant bearing numerous
small blossoms of a full orange, spotted with black.

_Lilium Parvum_ is another misnamed lily, for it often grows five feet
high, which is far taller than most lilies. It sometimes bears as many
as fifty blossoms.

_Lilium Maritimum_ resembles the last, but the blossoms are far
fewer, and are of a brick-red colour. Both these lilies resemble
_L. Canadense_ in their growth and habits. The bulb of _L. Parvum_
resembles that of _Lilium Pardalinum_ on a small scale.

_Lilium Roezlii_, another similar species, bears yellow flowers richly
spotted with purple. The bulb is rhizomatous. We figured the bulb of
this lily in our October part. _L. Grayi_ we know little or nothing of.
We possess a root, but it seems reluctant to flower.

The panther lily, or _Lilium Pardalinum_, is the finest of the swamp
lilies, Humboldt’s lily perhaps excepted. This lily has so much in
its favour that it should be grown by everyone who possesses a soil
suitable to its culture.

The bulb of this lily is very long, and the rhizome is covered with
scales, so that it is impossible to say where the bulb ends and the
rhizome begins. It is yellowish in colour, often suffused with pink.

In growth it resembles _L. Superbum_, but the inflorescence is quite
distinct. The flowers are large; the segments deep red for their outer
half and bright orange at their base, thickly spotted with black. In
the centre of the red portion of the segment is a large black spot
bordered with yellow, which gives the whole flower a very attractive
appearance. The petioles, or stalks which support the blossoms, are
very gracefully curved, a characteristic very well portrayed in the
accompanying drawing. Each stem will produce from three to eight
blossoms, each about two and a half inches across.

This is another very variable lily, and a large number of its varieties
have received special names. The variety _Augustifolium_, figured in
our illustration, is the one commonly grown. _L. Pardalinum Warei_
has flowers of an unspotted apricot colour. It is extremely rare and
expensive. _L. Bourgoei_ and _L. Pallidifolium_ are varieties which our
knowledge of lilies is insufficient to differentiate.

Perhaps a variety of _L. Pardalinum_, but more probably a distinct
species, _Lilium Californicum_ is distinguished from the last lily by
the fewness, but large size, of its blossoms, the greater brilliance of
its colour, the abrupt transition from the red to the orange portions
of the perianth, and the browner colour of its spots.

_L. Pardalinum_ and _L. Californicum_ require the same treatment as the
other swamp lilies except that they must have more leaf mould, more of
the mud from the ditch, if you can get it, and less peat and less water.

The last two of the swamp lilies of North America stand apart from
those which we have just considered, as they differ very greatly in
almost every particular.

_Lilium Humboldti_, by far the finest of the swamp lilies, is a plant
which every lover of gorgeous flowers should grow if he can. We said
“if he can,” for we cannot grow it! The plants do very well till the
blossoming season approaches, and then they die suddenly. Yet the bulbs
are not diseased, and the roots are chiefly normal.

The bulb of this species is long, oblique, and perennial. It does not
bear a rhizome, but it much resembles that of _L. Washingtonianum_.

In its growth and in its leaves this species resembles _L.
Washingtonianum_, but its blossoms would surprise anybody who had
never seen them. They are so different from any other flower in nature
except the little lily which is described below. Ten, twenty, forty,
even fifty blossoms may be borne by one stalk. These flowers are about
four inches long, completely recurved, but the tips of the segments
stand away from their bases on a pedicel of four or five inches length.
In colour they are a flaming orange-yellow, quite a different kind of
yellow from that of _Monodelphum_, spotted and splashed with a rich
purple brown.

We wish we could grow this lily, but unfortunately this is one of our
failures. It cannot be helped, we must try again; perhaps we shall
discover how to grow it in time.

From the last paragraph it follows that our opinion upon the
cultivation of this lily is not worth much. But we can tell you what
not to do and what we intend to do next year.

Do not grow this lily in peat. We imagined that the same treatment
as we gave the other swamp lilies would suit this one; but it did
not. We believe that it will do best if treated as we advised for _L.
Washingtonianum_ or _L. Monodelphum_. Still, we cannot grow the lily
ourselves, and we are not the only people who have difficulty with it.
If you want to know how to cultivate this lily, you must discover the
way yourself.

If you look at _L. Humboldti_ through the wrong end of a telescope, you
will get a very fair idea of _Lilium Columbianum_, the last of this
group of lilies. It will not, however, be a perfect resemblance, for
the flowers of the smaller species are more revolute and not nearly so
richly spotted. The bulb of this lily is ovoidal in shape. Indeed, it
is the only lily found in America which possesses an egg-shaped bulb.

This lily is not difficult to cultivate, a rich peaty soil with plenty
of ditch mud suiting it admirably. It flowers in the middle of June,
and is altogether a most satisfactory and beautiful plant.

(_To be continued._)




SELF-CULTURE FOR GIRLS.


PART VI.

In the preceding chapters we have dealt with the subject of reading in
general, and have mentioned many books of the olden world that must not
be ignored, besides some histories, with historical fiction side by
side, which may serve as stepping-stones down through the centuries to
the present day, or up through the centuries to the dawn of history,
whichever way you prefer to take your journey. As to whether you should
read history backwards or forwards, much depends on your present stock
of knowledge. If circumstances have unfortunately left you ignorant,
even of the history of your own country, you would be scarcely fitted
to begin a Greek history, but should choose, in the first place, an
English history, or historical primer, that you can understand.

The majority of girls who read this page will, however, possess a
fair knowledge of English history, and may at once begin their study
of ancient civilisations, which will help them in no small degree to
understand the present. Or they may, with advantage, consult Professor
Freeman’s _General Sketch of History_, with maps, published at 3s. 6d.
by Macmillan. The constant aim of this admirable little book is to show
the connection in history, and it is the best introductory book for the
general reader.

No cultivated person can live in an easy conviction that modern
civilisation is all that needs attention, and that “the old heathen” is
a suitable description of sages and philosophers of yore.

We must not omit to say that the advanced student in history will need
some good history of the Renaissance—Walter Pater’s or John Addington
Symonds’—to enlighten her as to the great awakening of the human
intellect in the fifteenth century.

Biography is an admirable channel for the learning of history.
Herodotus, the “Father of history,” showed us that history is really
only a series of stories about people, and if any reader can glance at
Rawlinson’s translation, she will become aware of this. Unfortunately
history is so long that these “stories” have, as a rule, to be
compressed, and so lose their living interest.

Perhaps the present generation cannot recall the charm of the _First
History of Rome_, and the _First History of Greece_, by the author
of _Amy Herbert_, used as school-books, in contrast to the ordinary
English history. The present writer used to wonder why Roman history
was so delightful, English history so dull, and why the former could
always be remembered—the latter, never! It was just because those
elementary manuals of Greek and Roman history—as to whose intrinsic
value we are expressing no opinion whatever—used the “story” method of
dealing with their subject.

Plutarch’s _Lives_ have already been mentioned. Dean Farrar’s _Seekers
after God_ should not be omitted. It tells the story of some of the
greatest men who lived just before and after the Christian era.

When we turn to English history we may learn much from the series of
_Twelve English Statesmen_, published at 2s. 6d. a volume by Macmillan.
An excellent specimen of these is Mrs. J. R. Green’s _Henry II._, a
delightful book from which the history of the twelfth century may be
better understood.

For the fifteenth century, read the _Life of Savonarola_, by Pasquale
Villari; an essay on _Joan of Arc_, by De Quincey. For the sixteenth
century consult “The Great Artists Series” for lives of Michael Angelo,
Raphael, Titian, and others, and read some Life of Martin Luther, or
Froude’s essay on Erasmus and Luther, in his _Short Studies_. Also
read Sidney Lee’s _Life of Shakespeare_.

For the seventeenth century Lord Macaulay’s essays on John Milton and
John Bunyan will be interesting. For the eighteenth century again
Lord Macaulay has an essay on Frederick the Great, which is valuable,
and Boswell’s _Life of Johnson_ is a delightful book for all times.
Lord Macaulay’s _Critical and Historical Essays_ from which the above
are selected are published at 2s. 6d. Sarah Tytler’s _Life of Marie
Antoinette_, published at 2s. 6d. (“New Plutarch Series”), may be
useful. Emerson’s book _Representative Men_ is published in many
editions from 6d. upwards. For the nineteenth century, there are
many biographies of interest; every great man has his life written
and published, and many men who are not great, so that it requires
discretion to choose among them. Read the _Life of Mazzini_, by E. A. V.,
whatever else you omit. The _Eulogy of Richard Jeffries_, by Walter
Besant, is a charming and suggestive book for lovers of nature, though
it has nothing to do with “history” so called.

The _Life of Michael Faraday_, by Professor Sylvanus Thompson, will
give you an insight into the progress of science, and how much it can
be aided by one single man. But it is vain to ramble on in this way.
You will probably have heroes or authors specially dear to you, and
will wish to know about them all that you can learn. Some of the most
fascinating biographies are those of authors: _e.g._, the _Life of
Charlotte Brontë_, by Mrs. Gaskell. You may also consult with advantage
the “Eminent Women Series,” published at 3s. 6d. each volume.

So much for indications—they are nothing else—to guide you in your
study of history and biography. This chapter is fated to dwell on what
is generally called “solid reading,” though some of the books we have
mentioned are as interesting as any novel.

Before we quit the regions of “solid reading” for those of poetry and
romance, which we hope to visit in the next chapter, a word may be said
for reading societies. Of these, undoubtedly the best is the National
Home Reading Union.

Amateur societies may be good, or may be extremely futile. The benefit
of the reading society is this: it helps people how to read, and
teaches them what to read; supplies lists of books for the different
sections, and criticisms on those books. A letter to the secretary,
Miss Mondy, Home Reading Union, Surrey House, Victoria Embankment,
London, W.C., will bring a reply with all details of the society, which
we commend to our readers.

There is much to be said as to the charming fields for exploration
that lie open to the reader of “essays.” The first writer in this vein
whom we should recommend to girls and women is Mr. Ruskin. Possibly
it may be a mistake on our part, but it seems to us that there is in
some quarters a tendency to detract from the fame of this illustrious
writer, who, perhaps more than any other, has helped to shape the
thought of his time. The prevailing taste for “restraint,” “literary
reserve,” and repression, is opposed to the freedom of his lofty
flights of eloquence and impassioned poetic prose. Yet this will be
only a temporary phase of opinion among a few; for as long as the
English language lasts, John Ruskin’s passages of nature-painting and
of artistic criticism, based as they are on truth, will endure. He is
also a teacher in the region of morality, and his advice is fitted in
no small degree for those about to enter upon life.

For a long time the advice to “read Ruskin” was rather tantalising,
as his books were so costly as to be beyond the reach of the ordinary
reader. But there is now an edition of many of them published at 5s.
the volume, by Mr. George Allen, Orpington, Kent. From this series you
might select _Ethics of the Dust_, _Sesame and Lilies_, and _A Crown
of Wild Olive_. _Modern Painters_ is a treasury of priceless value as
to its contents, and still costly; but _Frondes Agrestes_, containing
readings from it, is published at 3s.

What will Ruskin as a teacher do for you, provided, of course, you have
a mind open to receive and appreciate his teaching?

He will inculcate upon you the beauty of absolute truth, uprightness,
charity towards and care for your fellows.

He will teach you, with many a charming hint and allurement by the way,
the duty of storing, by the study of literature, your mind with the
very best that has been thought and said in the world.

He will open your eyes to the beauty that lies around you; for
instance, to the changing pageant of the skies, at morn, at sunset,
and at night—to the conformation of the tiny leaf, twig, or crystal as
well as to the majesty of the everlasting hills, and the might of the
torrent and the storm.

He will guide you into sound ways of thinking, with regard to painting
and architecture.

He will show you something of the capacity of the English language as a
vehicle of expression, and he cannot fail to add refinement and grace
to your mode of thought. He will make the world a more beautiful place
to you; and will make you more fit to live and work in the world.

So much for this great “Master,” as he is still called by those who
love and revere him.

Two indispensable authors in the field of essays and criticism, are the
Americans, Ralph Waldo Emerson and Oliver Wendell Holmes.

Emerson is a “prophet.” To many readers he puts into words what
they may have long thought or felt, and they start to see their own
unexpressed vague idea alive before them. “Trust thyself” is his
counsel.

The _Autocrat_, _Professor_, and _Poet of the Breakfast Table_, by
Oliver Wendell Holmes, are graceful and charming books which must
always be loved by the thoughtful reader. They can be obtained in the
“Camelot Series” at 1s. each.

Mazzini’s _Essays_, dealing chiefly with political and social
questions, should be read by thoughtful young men and women.

Thomas Carlyle has had much to do with the development of a feeling
of individual responsibility. The essays of Charles Lamb, and the
dialogues of Walter Savage Landor; the essays of Leigh Hunt, Augustine
Birrell, Mrs. Meynell, and many others, will charm in one way and
another, and repay reading.

There are certain writers whose province it seems to inspire and
stimulate. Such, to those on the threshold of life, are teachers of
priceless worth. Ruskin, Emerson, Mazzini, Carlyle, all belong to this
category.

They make us feel that life is worth living, ideals are worth toil and
aspiration; and recall the words of Matthew Arnold in _Rugby Chapel_:

    “Ye alight in our van! at your voice,
    Panic, despair, flee away.
    Ye move through the ranks, recall
    The stragglers, refresh the outworn,
    Praise, re-inspire the brave!
    Order, courage, return.
    Eyes rekindling, and prayers,
    Follow your steps as ye go.
    Ye fill up the gaps in our files,
    Strengthen the wavering line,
    Stablish, continue our march,
    On, to the bound of the waste,
    On, to the City of God.”

        LILY WATSON.

(_To be continued._)




THE NEW GAME OF CROQUET,

WITH A FEW HINTS TO BEGINNERS, BY ONE OF THEM.


[Illustration: FIG. 1.—GOOD FORM.]

Your editor, always with an eye to his readers’ pleasure and profit,
asked me to make a few drawings illustrative of the new way of playing
croquet, a game that has recently been revived with astonishing
success all over the country; and also to write a short description
of the game with a few general hints that may be of help to those
taking up croquet for the first time. I am old enough to remember the
introduction of the game, as played in the old way with wide hoops,
light mallets, and light balls. Croquet became the rage, and for a few
years monopolised the attention of lovers of outdoor recreation; then
lawn tennis came in, and croquet was allowed to well-nigh drop out of
existence. As played now it is certainly a far better game, and though
more difficult is correspondingly the more interesting. It might be
called lawn billiards, and with practice and some natural aptitude a
player can become as certain of his strokes as in billiards, provided,
of course, the lawn be a good one.

[Illustration: FIG. 2.—BAD FORM.]

The chief differences in the new game as compared with the old are
bigger and heavier mallets, heavier balls, narrower hoops placed much
further apart, and therefore more difficult to negotiate, no croqueting
with the foot, _i.e._, your own ball has to be placed against the ball
you have hit, and the player strikes his own ball according to the
distance and direction he wishes his own and the other ball to go,
instead of keeping his foot on his own ball while he hits it. Those who
have played the old game will realise what a difference this “loose”
instead of tight croqueting makes to the play. Another important point
in taking croquet is that if your own or the other ball is driven off
the boundary line, the player loses the remainder of his turn. This law
was introduced to prevent a player from running completely away from
his opponent, which was likely to happen when a good player was well
set.

The best game is that played between four players in partnership, as
matters become more equalised as the play proceeds than in single games
between two opponents, though where two players are fairly matched the
single game allows of a greater exhibition of skill. Games frequently
last a couple of hours and even longer in the four-handed game, and
from an hour to an hour and a half in singles, and it is important
that players should not feel “hung up” for time, for nothing is so
calculated to put a player off than the feeling that he must hurry to
catch a train. Good players proceed in a quiet determined fashion,
well on the alert, but never in a hurry. On the other hand, too much
calculation and deliberateness will often make a player fail to
get through a hoop or roquet. You must sight your ball and get the
direction, and then play boldly and with decision; hesitating play is
fatal to good strokes. Brisk play is undoubtedly the thing both for the
player and the others of the party, for if a game is dragged out it
becomes tedious. I confess that I am by no means a good player, but an
indifferent player can get a lot of enjoyment out of the game provided
he gets players of about his own calibre to play with and against
him. There is no doubt that to play well necessitates pretty constant
practice, for without that one cannot be sure of either the direction
and, what is of equal importance, the strength of his stroke. This
latter is one of the great difficulties of the game, for upon hitting
your ball the right distance depends your chance of a second stroke
either by getting through a hoop or when you roquet. The distance a
ball will travel will depend upon the nature of the lawn as well as
upon the strength of your stroke.

A good lawn well drained, of closely cropped turf in good condition
and true, will play faster than where the grass is poor and dampish.
Weeds, like plantains and daisies, will quite spoil a stroke if the
ball happens to slide upon them, and obviously holes or bare places are
still worse. An ordinary lawn can be improved by sifting over it sandy
road scrapings, and hollows filled in in this way early in the year and
well rolled will become turf later on as the grass will grow through
the soil. A poor lawn can be helped by sowing on this top dressing some
good lawn seed, which can be had at any good seedsman’s. Birds are
partial to it, and it is necessary to either net the lawn or stretch
across it black thread at intervals.

A lawn which is weedy can only be improved with trouble and labour.
Plantains, the worst pest, must be got up by their roots; there is
a lawn weeder sold for the purpose. Dandelions must be carefully
extracted or they will spring up again, as will docks. Daisies are a
nuisance, and can only be got rid of by weeding; the lawn sand will
do something to eradicate them. Constant rolling and cutting with a
good lawn mower, provided with a hood to collect the cut grass, is
necessary to preserve a lawn in good condition. An impoverished lawn
should be dressed with road sweepings and bone dust, and moss in a lawn
is a sure indication that this treatment is necessary. A lawn grown
from seed will take some two or three years to form a turf; to hasten
matters turfs should be put down, as if this be done in the autumn,
and the lawn thus formed be top-dressed with sifted road-scrapings in
the spring, it will be playable in the summer. If a lawn be damp there
is only one cure—drainage, which means having pipes laid some two feet
below the surface. A well drained lawn can be played on soon after a
shower of rain, whereas a badly drained lawn is nearly always boggy. I
give these few details about the lawn itself because, though many of us
have to put up with what we have, we might as well make the best of it,
and a little care and attention will do much to improve our turf, and
the game is so much more enjoyable if the lawn we play upon is fairly
good. Nothing is so annoying as having a good stroke spoilt because the
ball is given a wrong bias by a weed or hole.

[Illustration: FIG. 3.—SIGHTING THE BALL.]

It is not my purpose to give the rules of the game, as a capital
shilling handbook by Mr. J. Jeffery is published by Dean and Son,
Fleet Street, from which I take the three methods of arranging the
hoops, and to which I refer the reader; but a few general hints which
come to me through having played the game may not be _de trop_. It is
useless playing a much better player on equal terms, and here comes in
the question of handicapping. This can be done by giving the weaker
player the start of a hoop or two, or by “bisques,” or extra strokes
which can be taken at any period of the game. These extra strokes
should be given by an umpire, and where one is not available hoops
should be taken, though the weaker player can play to a certain hoop
while the stronger player has to go right round the course. This latter
arrangement is perhaps preferable. For single games a third ball called
a “Jack” can be used, each player having the right of using this extra
ball. The Jack can also be used by a player who elects to play two
others in partnership. Three players generally play enemies, and can
use a “Jack” or not as agreed upon. Where one player plays against two
others, he should be the better player, and should play first, as it
is an advantage for a weaker player to come after. In a four game the
last player is manifestly in a better position than the others, as he
has the three other balls to roquet. But there can be no question that
double games, _i.e._, with four players in partnership, is the ideal
game; the two stronger players should each take a weaker partner. In
the double game generalship is most important, the chief rule to be
observed being for the partners to play each other’s game, which means
coming to each other’s rescue quite irrespective of getting through
hoops. To make this clear, a player should go to the assistance of
his partner at all costs, for if partners do not play together their
chances of winning are much lessened. This may sound an arbitrary law,
but experience will convince anyone that it is founded upon a knowledge
of the game, as it is of the greatest help to have your partner’s
ball to roquet, and you not only help yourself, but you can often put
your partner’s through a hoop as well as your own. I have seen games
where two players will each play his own game irrespective of the
other, while their opponents play together, and as the game draws to
a conclusion the advantage of playing in partnership _in deed_ as
well as in name is most marked. It is sometimes worth the while of
a stronger player to become a “rover” when a game is well advanced,
especially if his partner is a weak player, as then the rover can give
more assistance to the partner than he could if he had to trouble about
points himself. Another tactic which must not be lost sight of is, when
you cannot come to your partner’s assistance, to make for the hoop your
partner will go for next, which will materially assist him, as he can
roquet your ball and “take two turns off.”

Six players can take part in a game, but it makes it long drawn out and
tedious.

There is another point to be observed, and that is to carry the war
into the enemies’ camp, especially if your two opponents are getting
much ahead. By croqueting them out of position instead of getting
through your own hoop you thwart them, thereby giving yourselves a
chance. Some players carry this too far, never troubling to make points
themselves, and as it is only by making points, that is, getting
through hoops, that wins the game, the chief concern should be to make
points, at the same time doing your best as occasion serves to prevent
your opponents getting ahead.

Always notice where the ball of the player following you is before you
make your final stroke, for it is certainly better to hit yourself out
of his way (and if possible, to where your partner’s ball is) even
at the loss of position than to give your opponent an easy roquet.
All these matters come under the head of generalship, and it is well
for partners to agree as to the course to be pursued, instead of each
asserting his or her _ego_, and so bringing about divided councils,
which can only end in disaster if your opponents play well together.
It is to be feared—that is, on this subject of tactics—so much bad
temper is shown, but that is not the fault of croquet, for there are
players at every game who lose their temper as play goes against them.
Play with all the keenness and persistence possible, never giving up
trying while the issue is still undecided, but the “rigour of the game”
certainly need not lead to ructions. There are days when one is “off”
play, and when the easiest strokes are muffed. This is aggravating, of
course, and if it annoys you much retire gracefully, but the old hand
knows that there are times when one’s play is better than usual, and
these occasions should make up for those other days when you are “off.”
All match-games and tournaments are apt to try one by inducing a state
of nervousness, which makes good play impossible. One knows that this
comes from over-desire to win, by playing up to one’s best form. Any
counsel is one of perfection on such a matter, but if one could only
realise that more is done by quiet steady play, hanging on to your
opponent’s heels and realising that the game is not lost until the last
point is scored, some of this feverish excitement might be allayed.

I must just say a few words with regard to strokes, and here the
illustrations, drawn from some photographs I took of a girl who is a
particularly good player, may be helpful.

There are two classes of players, those who score points and pay little
heed to the way they do this, and those who study “form,” that is, the
way they play: a good style comes partly by practice and partly by an
aptitude for the game. It is good form to hold your mallet somewhat
like a cricket bat as in Fig. 1, and hit your ball with freedom and
from the elbow, but beginners find it difficult to be certain of the
direction the ball will travel, and prefer to hold the mallet in
front of them as in Fig. 2, letting it swing like a pendulum. This
sort of stroke enables the player to gauge the direction with greater
certainty, but you can get no force into it, and the tyro should
cultivate the freer stroke, if she wish to become a strong instead of a
timid player.

In estimating direction, it is a good plan to look along the top of
your mallet across to the object you aim at, and your partner can be
of help here by looking from the object aimed at, on to your mallet,
as the girl is doing in Fig. 3, to see that the direction is the right
one. This I consider a very good hint, and one that I profited by
myself, and it is of great assistance to one to have your partner’s
criticism, especially when making a long shot. As regards strength of
stroke, practice alone can gauge this. The modern mallets have one
side faced with rubber for a particular class of strokes, where the
ball is not to travel far, and it is important for the player to learn
to use this side as well as the wooden one. Pushing or spooning is
rigorously barred, and a hit to count must be heard distinctly.

[Illustration: No. 1. EIGHT-HOOP SETTING.]

[Illustration: No. 2. SEVEN-HOOP SETTING.]

[Illustration: No. 3. SIX-HOOP SETTING.

_Used in Public Tournaments._]

Clips are used by some, as by attaching one to the hoop that has next
to be negotiated all discussion is avoided as to the play, as will
sometimes happen in the middle of a game, but many players do not
trouble to use them.

I give three diagrams as to the placing of the hoops marked with the
distances taken from the book published by Dean and Son before referred
to. A good game can be played on any fair-sized ground, but if too
small the strokes become too easy, and the game suffers. The proper
size is 40 yards long and 30 yards wide, and should not be less than 20
yards by 15 yards. The “dead boundary” should be marked all round with
whiting, as in lawn tennis.

These are the three chief settings with the distances measured on a
full-sized ground. Where the lawn is smaller the necessary allowances
must be made. The eight hoop setting is a good one for beginners, as
the distances to be negotiated are not so great as in the six hoop,
which is the most difficult of the three.


No. 1.—EIGHT HOOP.

Pegs 3 yards from boundary.

First and sixth hoops 4 yards from pegs.

Middle hoops midway and 4 yards from each other.

Corner hoops 5 yards from end of ground and 4 yards from side.

Starting spot opposite centre of same, and 2 feet in front.


No. 2.—SEVEN HOOP.

Pegs in centre line of ground, 7 yards from nearest boundary.

Hoops up centre of ground, 5 yards from peg, and 5¼ yards apart.

Corner hoops 7 yards from centre, and in a line with pegs.

Starting spot 1½ yards from first hoop in centre line.


No. 3.—SIX HOOP.

As in No. 2, except that the middle-line hoops are 7 yards apart, and 7
yards from peg.

Starting spot opposite centre of left-hand corner hoop, and 1 foot from
same. Corner hoops in a line with pegs.




SHEILA’S COUSIN EFFIE.

A STORY FOR GIRLS.

BY EVELYN EVERETT-GREEN, Author of “Greyfriars,” “Half-a-dozen
Sisters,” etc.


CHAPTER XV.

SNOWY ENGLAND.

Oscar sat alone in the office. It was Saturday afternoon, and the
other clerks had already taken their departure. He had undertaken
to finish what work still remained; and a pile of letters lay upon
the desk before him. Outside the snow was lazily falling, and he had
no disposition for the football match in the town ground, which had
attracted his comrades. He scarcely felt inclined to leave the hot
little fire, and face the cold walk to River Street.

Oscar was not looking well just now, and he was feeling a little
depressed. The winter had been rather a dreary season for him. He
missed Sheila and the pleasant Sundays spent with her at Cossart Place.
The monotony of his present work oppressed him more than it had done
at first. He had braced himself at the outset to bear their reverse of
fortune bravely, and he knew that they were lucky in having relations
who had come forward to help them at that crisis in their affairs. He
had resolved not to disappoint them, and had thrown himself with as
much interest and energy as possible into his new tasks.

But we all know that it is easier to bring enthusiasm and energy to the
commencement of a new routine than to maintain it day after day and
week after week. Oscar had never liked the routine work of the office,
and latterly he had had a good deal of it. The senior clerk had died
rather suddenly in September, and his place had not been filled. Oscar
had been given a part of his work, and North had lent his energies to
filling the gap. It had made the office work heavier than had been
the case at first, though Oscar had been glad to help his uncle in
the emergency, and even Cyril had sometimes come down and offered his
services.

Gradually Oscar had come to be looked upon as head of the office under
North. The other clerks, if not younger, were less responsible, and
looked to him as being a relative of Mr. Cossart’s. This was pleasant
in a way, but it kept Oscar more to his desk than he had expected, and
the contrast to his old life of freedom was sometimes keenly felt.

He was not very robust, and the cold damp winter tried him. There had
been little severe frost, but a wet, dank fog had hung about, with
drizzling rain or sleety snow. He had to turn out in all weathers, and
had not time or energy for exercise of a more exhilarating character
than the daily walk to the office. So that he drooped somewhat as the
winter wore away, and felt little spring for anything beyond his daily
round.

However, the week’s work was now finished, and he was just
contemplating closing the office when his uncle came quickly in, a look
of vexation upon his face.

He had some papers in his hand, and one of these he threw down upon the
desk before the young man, saying in a vexed tone—

“Look there, Oscar! What does this mean? Here is that bill come in a
second time from Jones and Wright, and I gave you the money to pay it
with in October. They are a small firm, and I never keep them waiting
for payment. What does it mean?”

Oscar looked at the bill, pondered a moment, for many bills went
through his hands now, and his memory was not very strong for detail;
then a flash of enlightenment seemed to come upon him, and he exclaimed—

“Oh, I remember now. You gave me the money in cash. But, uncle, the
bill was paid, and I have the receipt, and it’s all checked off in the
books. I will show you.”

Oscar got down the file and ledger, found the place in the latter,
where the entry had been made, and produced the former bill duly
receipted.

Mr. Tom looked at it, and compared it with the paper on the desk.

“A singular mistake for Jones and Wright to make,” he observed.
“However, I will see them myself. It is close by, and I daresay they
will not have closed already.”

He went off, and Oscar, without thinking more of the matter, shut up
the desks and such places as were under his care, gave out the letters
for the post, and went home.

He wished there had been something else to do than to go to the River
Street house. Had Sheila only been there, he would have spent the
Sunday at Cossart Place, for he was a favourite in that house, Effie
having taken one of her rather capricious fancies to him. But it was no
use thinking of that now; and he went home in the snow, glad to find
himself under shelter, although there was nobody to give him a welcome.

The Bensons were always “at home” on Saturday afternoons, and it was
the fashion now for the Cossarts to be there pretty regularly. The
two families had always been intimate, now they were almost like one.
Raby’s marriage was being talked of for the coming summer. Her mind was
already very full of the trousseau and wedding finery.

Oscar established himself in the library and commenced his weekly
journal letter to Sheila. He had posted one for the mail yesterday, but
he had not been able to tell her of several small items of interest
which had occurred during the past week. He was still writing when his
uncle came in with a very grave look upon his face.

Oscar felt at once that something must be amiss, but it did not occur
to him that the matter would affect him personally. He looked up with a
question in his eyes, and was perplexed at the grave unbending glance
that met his.

“I have been to Jones and Wright about that bill, Oscar,” he said, in
very measured tones, and then came to a full stop.

“Yes, uncle?” said Oscar, with a note of interrogation in his voice,
and then came to a deadlock himself, feeling uncomfortable without
knowing why.

“Just that, Oscar. I have been to them. They tell me that bill was
never paid. That receipt was not made by any of their people. They
invariably use their stamp; they do not write across the postage stamp
with a pen. I verified this by going back to the office and looking
up former receipts. See here, I have brought the bills to show you.
No, Oscar, do not speak yet, I do not wish you to do so. Take time.
I will leave the papers here with you now. Later on I will come for
your explanation. Remember, my boy, that all I look for is a free and
candid explanation and confession, whatever the fault may be. You are
my sister’s son, and I shall not forget that.”

And Mr. Tom walked rather hastily from the room, leaving Oscar sitting
with the bills before him, and a dazed expression upon his face.

It took him a little time to collect himself and gather all the
significance of this thing. Bit by bit it came to him that a deed had
been done by some person which was nothing more or less than the theft
of forty pounds; for that was the amount of the bill. The money had
been given to him in cash—he remembered that. Usually debts were paid
by cheque, but now and then, when there was a good deal of cash in
the office, payments were made in this way; but when this method was
employed, it was always North or himself who was entrusted with the
money.

A burning flush rose to Oscar’s cheek. He strove to recall what he
had done with that forty odd pounds. He had no recollection of going
to that place himself with the money. He must have entrusted it to
somebody else, in that easy-going way of which North had warned him
more than once.

Oscar thrust his hands through his hair, and racked his brains
desperately. He saw at once what a terrible temptation he had put in
somebody’s way. It had hardly occurred to him as yet that he might fall
under suspicion himself; but he realised that through his easy-going
carelessness—his way of trusting the other clerks with business given
him to do, and doing theirs in exchange—he had been the cause of
a serious monetary loss to his uncle, and had enabled somebody to
embezzle money and perhaps lay the foundation of a career of crime.

It was a terrible thought. But who—who was the culprit? Careless as
Oscar knew himself to be, it did not yet seem to him that he would
readily have put so large a sum of cash into the hands of a young
clerk, and yet he had never suspected one of them of the smallest
deflection from rectitude, and certainly he had given it to somebody.

He looked at the date of the false receipt. It was just after the death
of Curtis, when the office was in some confusion and the pressure
of work heavy. He might well have overlooked the memory of the
transaction. And yet he did seem to have some floating impression of
a talk with somebody about the payment of the bill, and he distinctly
remembered filing the receipt and making the entry in the ledger.

But to whom had he given the money?

He pulled out the tiny pocket diary he carried, where he just dotted
down notes of things to be told to Sheila. He found the day in
question, and noted the initial C. in one corner.

That meant that Cyril had been helping them. He remembered he had told
Sheila of the condescension of the great ’Varsity man! And then with a
start it came over him. Could it have been Cyril who had paid the bill?
Or at least who had taken the money to do so, and brought back the
supposed receipt?

Oscar’s heart beat thick and fast. He buried his face in his hands and
thought. Slowly there seemed to come to him some such recollection,
but was it only imagination? He remembered the pressure of that day.
He remembered his uncle coming in and out with various orders. He
remembered the money being given him with instructions to pay the bill
at once; but there absolute memory failed him. Yet Oscar thought he
would remember had he entrusted another with the task, though had Cyril
offered in his easy way to go and pay the bill, most likely he would
have agreed without a second thought. As he pondered the matter over
and over, it seemed to grow clearer in his mind that Cyril had taken
the matter into his own hands; but the very thought of this struck
him with a sort of terror. Cyril was a son of the house. He was still
the favourite of his parents. They would never, never believe such a
thing of him. It would be almost impossible even to suggest it. And
then Oscar could not be certain that he remembered the circumstance,
only fleeting visions passed before his mind’s eye, together with the
conviction that he would not have so easily forgotten the matter had
not Cyril or North been his substitute. If he had made over the money
to a brother clerk, he felt certain he would have recollected the
matter.

And whilst he was in the midst of these troubled cogitations, who
should come in but Cyril himself.

Oscar looked up eagerly.

“You are the very person I was wanting,” he said, not pausing to
consider whether or not open speech were the most diplomatic way of
treating this problem. “Cyril, do you remember those days after Curtis
died when you came and helped in the office?”

Suddenly Cyril’s eyes narrowed slightly; if Oscar had not been so
absorbed himself, he might have noticed the indefinable change that
passed over Cyril’s face, but his voice was quite gay and easy.

“I remember coming and writing a lot of very dry letters, but I
hope you don’t expect me to quote you their contents after three
months!”—and he laughed.

“Do you remember your father bringing in some money and giving it to me
to pay a bill of Jones and Wright?”

Cyril turned to poke the fire, and seemed to be pausing to refresh his
memory.

“I think I have a vague recollection of something of the sort, though
what firm it was I should be sorry to say. I remember his putting some
money on your desk, and I think I advised you to lock it up.”

Oscar gave a little start; those words brought back a fresh wave of
recollection, but his heart beat heavily and seemed to fall within him.
He had not a very high opinion of Cyril’s moral courage. If indeed he
had been guilty—but Oscar would not pursue the thought farther lest he
should lose his self-control.

“Cyril, didn’t you take the money to pay the bill? Don’t you remember
saying you had written enough, and would like a breath of fresh air? We
thought it would get rid of the money lying about. Didn’t you take it
and bring back the receipt?”

“I?” questioned Cyril lightly, leaning forward and making another
vigorous onslaught at the fire. “I don’t recollect ever paying a firm’s
bill in my life! But suppose I did, what then?”

“Well, there has been a mistake about this bill,” said Oscar. “Either
it was not paid, and the person who had the money receipted it; or
else it was paid to some unauthorised person in Jones and Wright’s who
pocketed the money and receipted the bill without using the firm’s
stamp. Anyway the money has never got into the right hands, and I am
very uneasy about it, because I can’t be sure who it was that took the
money from me. And it is such a dreadful thing to think of anybody’s
being a thief. I wondered if you had given it afterwards to some other
person. I can’t help having a vague impression that you had something
to do with it, Cyril.”

Oscar looked up appealingly. Stronger and more strong was the notion
coming to him that Cyril was the responsible person. But how would it
be possible to bring it home to him if he denied? Oscar did not think
either of the younger clerks had been present when the talk between
them passed. He seemed to remember Cyril’s saying it had better be
paid, and his taking the money away before the lads came back from
their dinner. Yes, he felt more and more certain every minute. But
Cyril lay back in his chair and laughed.

“My dear fellow, you are quite making a mare’s nest for yourself. I
had nothing whatever to do with the matter. I recollect my father’s
bringing you the money and telling you to pay, and I recommended you
to lock it up out of sight. That is all I know of the matter, and I’m
afraid I can’t help you out of your difficulty——”

And there Cyril suddenly stopped short for North had entered the room,
and it was plain from his face that he knew the story and had come to
talk the matter over with Oscar.

“I’ll leave you to have it out together,” said Cyril rather hastily,
rising and walking away. “I wish I could help you to a better memory,
Oscar; but, perhaps, if you and North talk it over together you’ll get
some light on the subject.”

He walked off whistling, closing the door behind him. North looked
after him with the same rather stern expression on his face that it had
worn on entering.

“Oscar,” he said slowly, “do you mean that Cyril is in any way mixed up
in this wretched business?”

Oscar dropped his eyes and spoke in a very low tone.

“I don’t know, North.”

(_To be continued._)




THE COURTSHIP OF CATHERINE WEST.


CHAPTER II.

That day was the beginning of a week of pure delight to Catherine.
In proportion as her body drank in the pure sweet air, so her mind
and outlook developed and expanded. It was much for her to have
the constant companionship of a woman like Margaret Gray, a woman
whose generous nature viewed the girl’s beauty without jealousy, and
delighted in setting it off to the best advantage. At first, indeed,
she had had a qualm. Suppose that Granville, in spite of his apparent
indifference, should take a fancy to this penniless teacher. What would
become of all his sister’s ambitious schemes for his promotion by a
marriage with Lord Mayne’s sister, a scheme not utterly absurd in the
face of that lady’s marked esteem for him? That, indeed, would be a
disastrous ending to Margaret’s benevolent plans, and she determined
to avert it by a little talk with her new friend. She read Catherine
through and through, and knew that she was one of those women who take
a highly idealistic view of love and marriage; who conceive that even a
suspected preference of a man for a particular woman makes him sacred
to her, and who would shrink from desiring another girl’s lover as they
would shrink from a robbery. If she could convey to Catherine that
Granville’s affections were already engaged, she knew that she would
have little to fear.

They were sitting out on the verandah after dinner, reviewing
the delightful experiences of the day, spent in the ascent of a
neighbouring hill.

“And to-morrow we will go into the valley for a change. Wouldn’t it
be nice to go on the lake? Granville rows splendidly; he was in his
college boat the last year at Oxford,” said Margaret.

“Don’t you think you two had better go alone?” asked Catherine. “I am
sure you would enjoy it more, and I can easily find something else to
do.”

“Oh, but you must come,” urged Margaret. “You would be frightfully dull
alone, and I want you.”

“It’s awfully good of you, but——”

“But what?”

“I don’t think your brother likes the trouble of always having another
person to look after.”

Margaret laughed.

“Oh, you mustn’t think that; he really likes you very much, but you are
rather incomprehensible to him. He would be so distressed if he thought
that you stayed away on that account.” Secretly Margaret thought,
“Rather a dangerous symptom, that she should be so sensitive to his
indifference.”

“Granville is not quite an ordinary person, you know,” added his
sister, speaking very fast, in order to cover Catherine’s confusion.
“It takes a long time for him to get to like people, but when he has
once formed a friendship no one could be more loyal. I envy Lady
Blanche.”

“Lady Blanche?” asked Catherine. “Who is she?”

“Oh, she is Lord Mayne’s sister. Long ago, before our father died,
Granville and Maurice—Lord Mayne, you know—were at Oxford together.
They were great chums, and Granville used to spend most of his
vacations at Grimshaw. He and Lady Blanche were certainly very good
friends, and I think there might have been an engagement had not my
father died suddenly, leaving his affairs in an inextricable muddle. He
was overwhelmed with debt; and instead of inheriting a large fortune,
as we had imagined would be the case, Granville and I found ourselves
with only a comparatively small capital. The interest on that is still
going to pay off the debts. Of course, Granville couldn’t speak then,
and it was fortunate for him that Lord Mayne entered Parliament at that
time, and insisted on his becoming his secretary. Between ourselves it
was quite equally fortunate for Lord Mayne, because Granville is ten
times as clever as he is; and when people praise his speeches, and talk
of him as the ‘most brilliant of our younger politicians,’ I hug myself
and think that he is inspired by my brother.”

“But how sad!” cried Catherine sympathetically. “And did Lady Blanche
care for him all the time?”

“That I can’t tell, but though all this is seven years ago, she is
still unmarried, and if Granville ever recovered any of our fortune
I am sure he would ask her. It would be a splendid thing for him,
for Blanche has heaps of money of her own. Think—he could go into
Parliament and make quite as great a figure as Lord Mayne.”

“That would be splendid,” cried the girl enthusiastically, “but if she
loves him, surely she would be glad to marry him without the money.”

“No doubt; but he can’t ask her, at least, not yet. But sometimes I
hope that by some lucky chance they may come to an understanding, and
the difficulty may be solved. Come, we must say ‘Good night’ now, if we
are to start early to-morrow.”

Margaret’s stratagem had quite succeeded in one way, and the girl
looked on Granville henceforth as an engaged man. But this made an
enormous difference to her. Absurdly conscious of her lack of means,
and fearful lest anyone should think that she looked forward to
matrimony as a deliverance from her daily toil, her manner to the
few men she had met had been almost repellant. But if Mr. Gray were
engaged, he could not (she thought, in the innocence of her heart)
imagine that she had any designs on him. And so the constraint which
had hitherto affected her manner to him wore off; she met him as
frankly and as unaffectedly as she did his sister.

Margaret had given him a hint to persuade Catherine to come with them
the next day, and as she came downstairs, she found him waiting in the
hall.

“Why, are you not ready yet?” he asked, seeing that she was without her
hat.

“I—did not think of coming to-day,” she said, hesitating, and smiling
to conceal the disappointment in her tone.

“Oh, but you must, please! Margaret will be so disappointed—we shall
both be disappointed if you don’t. Look outside; can you resist it?”

The sun was shining on the twin peaks at the head of the valley,
the sky was a brilliant blue, the air dry and clear with that sweet
freshness peculiar to mountainous places. Catherine wavered in her
decision.

“Come,” said Granville decidedly, “run up and get your hat, and I will
have coffee for you by the time you come down. We have only ten minutes
before we must start.”

The girl, feeling half ashamed of her own weakness, yet, at the same
time, happy and pleased, returned in a minute, equipped for the day.
Margaret’s confidences and Granville’s own cordiality had broken down
the barrier. Catherine soon found herself talking quite easily and
naturally to the brother of her friend, while he, on his part, realised
that his early prejudices were fast disappearing. How fresh and
unaffected the girl was, and how simplicity and wisdom mingled in her
conversation! They talked of books, and he was surprised to find how
apt and sympathetic her criticisms were, though they betrayed at every
moment the speaker’s ignorance of the world, and her extravagantly
ideal view of human nature. Margaret, walking beside them, would
listen quietly, now and then putting in some shrewd comment or witty
parenthesis, which set them all laughing, and relieved the strain of a
too intense conversation.

So five days passed, the intimacy deepening hourly, while every evening
brought its gift of quiet converse on the starlit verandah, and every
morning its glad summons to another day of enthusiastic activity.
Catherine counted these days as a miser counts his gold. The High
School, and all the premature anxieties and responsibilities that
poverty had laid upon her seemed so far away. Now, for the first time,
she realised what life might mean, what for some few it did mean.

“Only seven days more!” she sighed, as she bound her hair before the
looking-glass, just a week after her arrival. “What a glorious week it
has been! If only the next is as good!”

Brilliant weather still smiled upon them. They were to go that day for
a longer excursion than any they had as yet undertaken, a long climb,
which involved the aid of guides, and which was to be shared by some of
the other visitors.

Margaret was waiting for Catherine on the verandah.

“How lovely you are!” she exclaimed, in a sudden burst of admiration,
as the sun caught the girl’s bright brown hair, and bathed her figure
in a kind of golden glory. “Do you know, if you were not you, I might
be afraid”—she added in a whisper, looking significantly at Granville
who was some yards away, talking to the guide.

Catherine’s face crimsoned. “Oh, how can you say such things?” she
asked indignantly.

“Forgive me, dear, it was too bad. But I never knew a girl less
conscious of her own power, or less of a coquette than you. I would
trust you not only with my brother, but with my lover, if by any
possibility one should fall to my share.”

“Margaret! When everyone loves you!” cried her friend.

“Now we are getting sentimental, and we had better join the others,”
laughed Margaret. And so at last they started, a merry chattering
party, up the steep ascent to the mountains.

Catherine never forgot that day; the first few miles of shady forest,
where ferns and bilberries nestled by quiet springs of water, and
the shy inhabitants of the pine-trees fled away with a rustling of
branches and nimble feet at their approach. And then the gradual cool
emergence on wide green fields, in whose hollows lay the quiet blue
lakes, troubled only by the gentle hoofs of the dainty bell-adorned
cattle. Here they found, by bubbling springs, bright patches of blue
gentian, that outrivalled the sky in brilliancy, and bade defiance to
the vanishing mantle of half-melted snow that lay around them. All
these things Catherine seemed to see in a kind of glorified vision, and
though Granville was beside her, neither spoke much; the rest of the
party had hastened on with mirth and laughter; Margaret especially had
discovered that one of the guides was a most interesting companion, and
was chattering gaily to him in German.

“Are you enjoying yourself?” asked Catherine’s companion suddenly, and
there was a new accent in his voice, that was an imperative summons to
her subdued emotions.

“Immensely!” she replied, sighing.

“Then why sigh?” he asked, laughing; and then, looking down, he saw
that her eyes were full of tears.

“I believe you are tired!” he exclaimed remorsefully. “Suppose we sit
down and have a little rest.”

“No, really, I am not at all tired; only everything is so perfect.”

“Then let us prolong perfection,” he answered. “We are nearly at the
top now, and we shall soon find the others again. Here is a comfortable
place; you can lean against this rock, and I will put a stone for your
feet.”

But at that moment, there was a sudden sound of falling rock, a rush of
loosened stones and gravel, and just within an ace of her shoulder a
huge fragment of rock broke away, and was hurled down the slope beneath
them, followed by a mass of mingled snow and débris.

His arm went quickly round her, and drew her from the spot.

“My darling! What an escape! And you didn’t even scream!” he said,
not withdrawing his arm. “There, don’t tremble; it’s all right,” he
continued, soothing her as he would a frightened child, and for a
moment his lips rested on hers.

This recalled Catherine to her senses.

“Oh, you mustn’t,” she cried, breaking from him in an agony of shame.
One clear thought possessed her mind; either that kiss was treason to
Lady Blanche, or he had taken advantage of her defenceless position to
insult her. To her intense relief, as she hurried forwards round the
turning of the path, she came upon all the others, who had stopped to
drink at a little wayside spring.

“Oh, did you hear that noise?” asked Margaret. “I suppose it was a
miniature avalanche.”

“Not a very insignificant one,” said Granville, who was close behind.
“It nearly knocked us over. However, all’s well that ends well,” he
added gaily. “Miss West, do you want a drink?”

His light, conversational tone struck on Catherine’s overstrained
emotions with a sudden chill. How could he manage such a sudden
transition? But she summoned all her self-control, and took the cup in
as matter-of-fact a way as he handed it to her.

For the rest of the day she clung close to Margaret. She felt that
to let Granville approach her would be treason to the friend who had
reposed so much confidence in her. Suppose Margaret should think that
she had been trying to attract her brother’s attention! And then,
again, with a sudden pang came the cruel thought that his conduct might
imply no real attachment to her; that he had merely given way to the
impulse of the moment, or, worse still, was a deliberate flirt. And yet
she could not believe this; all that she knew of him militated against
such a view; she could not think that she had been so greatly mistaken
in her estimate of his character, nor that he could thus belie the
traditions of a gentleman. Her heart confirmed her faith in him, and
amidst the tumultuous emotions of the moment, she was surprised and
ashamed to recognise an irrepressible elation, and a strange absence of
that feeling of angry humiliation which she supposed to be the correct
state of mind under the circumstances. Notwithstanding this, when the
hotel was again reached, she pleaded fatigue, and slipping away to her
own room, did not reappear that evening.

Granville was walking up and down the verandah in a state of suppressed
excitement, longing to see the flutter of her skirt in the doorway, yet
conscious that her manner to him since the episode of the avalanche
had been a tacit reproof. How stupid he had been to frighten her so;
and yet, although he was not a vain man, he could not pretend to think
that she had been very angry with him. She had permitted his embrace,
and that from a girl of her stamp was a sufficient avowal of the state
of her feelings. His honour as well as his inclination required that
he should make a definite claim to her affection, and if Catherine
had ventured to come down that evening he would have done so. But
her absence gave him time for reflection, and as the wave of emotion
subsided, he realised how fatal such a step would be to his career.
He was an extremely ambitious man, and success to him would involve
either a long celibacy, or a rich marriage. Hitherto his intellect had
been developed at the expense of his affections, and except for his
warm attachment to his sister, and a loyal friendship for Lord Mayne,
his heart had remained untouched. He had dallied with the idea of a
marriage with Blanche, but had not regarded it with much seriousness;
from a worldly point of view it would certainly be advantageous, but,
on the whole, he preferred the independence of the bachelor state. He
remained on cordial terms with the heiress, and awaited the development
of affairs without the least impatience, only laughing at his sister’s
frequent hints as to Lady Blanche’s inclination for him. Perhaps,
little as he suspected it, he was all the while guided by his own
nobility of heart, which withheld him from the sacrilege of a loveless
marriage. And would his heart now vindicate its authority over his
intellect and triumph over the closely-laid schemes, the absorbing
aims, the ceaseless industry of years? Supposing that Catherine should
confirm her unspoken confession, was he prepared to relinquish for
her his long-cherished ambitions, and resign himself to a life of
insignificance and dependence?

But in the midst of the conflict something happened which revealed to
him the strength of his passion, and brought him to a swift decision.
His sister at this moment came running to him, her face flushed with
excitement, holding a letter and telegram in her hand.

“What do you think?” she cried. “A letter from Blanche! Actually, she
is at Interlaken, and wants to meet us there. She has been travelling
with the Brookes, but they are going back through Paris, which she
hates. The telegram has just come, too. She would like us to go there
to-morrow, and bring her back with us.”

Secretly Margaret was thinking, “What a stroke of luck! Could anything
be more favourable to an explanation than all these circumstances?” But
Granville’s first exclamation was not promising.

“What a nuisance!” he cried.

Margaret looked at him with mingled dismay and surprise, and his next
words were not reassuring.

“What is to become of Miss West if we go away? She will be all alone.”

“Nonsense, Granville, what absurd objections you do make! We need not
be away more than two days, and Catherine is quite able to take care of
herself.”

“Poor little girl!” he began, and then bit his lip at his own
indiscretion. “Very well, I suppose we must go. I’ll find the
time-table.”

But how unwelcome to him at this moment was the thought of the new
arrival! Though his conscience was quite clear with regard to her, he
felt that Blanche would prove a discordant element. He did not for a
moment suppose that his engagement would be the least trouble to her;
but he would have preferred to conduct his wooing under less vigilant
eyes; besides, if he did not speedily acquaint Margaret with the true
state of affairs, he knew that she would be continually planning to
leave him and Blanche together, and the opportunities for seeing
Catherine by herself would be rendered much fewer. After much thought
he determined that as soon as he saw the latter he would come to some
definite understanding with her; but this could not be till after their
return from Interlaken, as they would have to start early the next
morning, probably before she was up. He would therefore send her a note
explaining his absence, and expressed in such a manner as to leave no
doubt as to his attachment; and having written this, and seen about
its safe delivery, he turned in, prepared to bear the vexations of the
morrow with as good a grace as possible.

Margaret had meanwhile run up to Catherine’s room and tapped gently at
the door. The girl opened it with trembling hands.

“Oh, you mustn’t get up, dear,” said Margaret. “I only came to tell you
something. I can’t tell you how sorry I am, but Granville and I are
obliged to go to Interlaken to-morrow. We shall be away all day, and I
don’t want you to get up to see us off, so I thought I would come and
say good-bye now.”

Catherine, whom she had forced down on the couch again, raised herself
on one elbow, and looked at her in some bewilderment.

“Going away? I don’t quite understand. Do you mean that you are going
home?”

“My dear child! What an idea! Haven’t we promised to look after you,
and take you with us when that unhappy day does arrive? No, but Lady
Blanche has telegraphed to us to meet her at Interlaken; she wants to
join us here. Now, congratulate me, dear. She is evidently not averse
to my pet scheme; and what could be more favourable to an understanding
than these romantic surroundings? Oh, I hope very much that the
engagement will be definitely announced as soon as we get back.”

“You think it would be a good thing for your brother?” asked Catherine,
glad that the darkening room hid her face.

“What a question to ask! It would be his making. Blanche is just the
wife for him—a tall, clever girl, who would make a capital hostess,
and help him in his political career. If it hadn’t been for his horrid
pride, which makes him dread the mere suspicion of interested motives,
the thing would have come off long ago. And now I think I may promise
you a ticket for the Ladies’ Gallery when he makes his maiden speech.”

“Is he so very proud? Does he really care for her?” faltered Catherine.

“Well, I don’t pretend that he is passionately in love. He is
so reserved and so self-controlled, and all his interests are
intellectual; love would never play an absorbing part in his life,
though, if he once made up his mind, no one would be more loyal. Oh, I
think Lady Blanche will be very happy, and if I didn’t think the main
advantage would be with her, I wouldn’t try so hard to bring it about.
Now, good-bye, dear; only for a day, you know. And mind you have a good
rest while we are away.”

Margaret disappeared, and Catherine did the obvious and feminine thing
under the circumstances; she buried her face in the sofa cushion and
burst into tears. Till then, she felt, she had never known what grief
was. “But it is much better for him,” she sobbed. “How could I help
him, or ever do anything for him? It was all a mistake—and how silly I
am!”

Presently she dried her tears, and carefully bathing her eyes and
brushing her hair, she exchanged her dressing-gown for the dress she
had travelled in. Then she dragged out her portmanteau, and began to
fold her clothes, preparatory to packing them in it. In the midst of
these preparations, there came another knock at the door. This time it
was the chambermaid with a note.

Catherine took it with a feeling that almost amounted to dread, and
tore it open.

    “Dearest,” it ran, “I am obliged to be away to-morrow, and shall
    not be able to see you before I start. I shall try to be back in
    the evening. Good-bye for a little while.

        “G. G.”

This was the signal for a fresh burst of tears. She held the letter
to her lips for a minute, and then folded it away in the bosom of her
dress. Then she went on with her packing. In another hour it was all
done.

Ten o’clock. She wondered whether Margaret and Granville were still
up. Even tourists go to bed early in Switzerland, and, considering
their plans for the next day, she thought it doubtful. So she slipped
downstairs, and told the porter that she was obliged to go away
suddenly, and would like to leave by the first train in the morning.
Which was it?

“Ah, there is one at sigs o’clock, mees,” he said. “There is a party
leaving at five to catch it. Ze young lady will perhaps like to travel
with them?”

On further inquiry Catherine found that the train she would go by left
the station half an hour after the one by which the Grays would travel.
She determined to remain in her room till they had started, and thus
manage her departure unobserved. She went upstairs again, and wrote
two little notes, one to Margaret and one to Granville.

“Dearest Margaret,” said the first, “please don’t think me ungrateful
for going away like this. I shall never forget you or your kindness.
Perhaps some day I shall be able to thank you, but for the present I
implore you not to try to find out where I am gone.”

The other was more difficult of composition; but after two or three
attempts she produced the following—

“Please do not think me unkind if I say that I think it better for both
of us not to meet again. I cannot explain why, but I am sure that I am
right. Good-bye, my dear.”

She could not refrain from the little touch of tenderness at the end,
though afterwards she would have given worlds to recall it. “After
all,” she argued, “he must know that I do care; and I would rather he
thought that than that he should believe I let him behave so, without
loving him.”

And so it happened that the next morning she was on her way back to
England, a week before she had anticipated; certainly her holiday had
not failed to bring her adventures.

(_To be continued._)




ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.


STUDY AND STUDIO.

RACHEL M. WESTLAKE (New Zealand).—Many thanks for your pleasant
letter.—1. The joyous keeping of Christmas itself (for which see
Chambers’s _Book of Days_) is responsible for the sending of Christmas
cards. Just as we send birthday cards to greet our friends on
their birthdays, so we send cards to greet those to whom we cannot
personally wish “A happy Christmas.” We do not think there is any
ancient origin of the custom.—2. Boys at public schools are “taught
so much about the heathen gods and goddesses” because to understand
Greek and Latin literature it is necessary to understand mythology.
Homer, for instance, cannot be understood without knowing about Zeus,
Pallas Athênê, and the other inhabitants of Olympus “who hold the wide
heaven.” The whole subject of the value of classical education is far
too vast to enter upon here.

ST. PATRICK.—1. We will consider your request as to the article on
“Burnt Wood Work.”—2. We are afraid there is no way of restoring the
colour in question; but careful washing will do much to prevent its
conversion into green in the first instance.

AN IGNORANT MUSICIAN.—1. There is no royal road to success in reading
music at sight. The only way is to practise constantly reading new
music. A distinguished professor, whom we know, advises also reading
the notes by the eye, without the piano.—2. Both your methods of
treating the bass chords are equally correct, but you should beware of
consecutive octaves.

If “COUNTRY LASS” were to write to Mrs. Sole, Crudwell Rectory,
Malmesbury, she might receive help of a practical kind.

A READER ABROAD (New Zealand).—We are glad to tell you something of
what we know about Berry Pomeroy Castle. It is said to have been
founded by Ralph de la Pomeroie, one of William the Conqueror’s
knights, who received from his sovereign fifty-eight manors in all,
among them that of Berry, in Devonshire. The castle remained in the
possession of the Pomeroy family until the middle of the sixteenth
century, when Sir Thomas Pomeroy, who had been a ringleader in the
Rising in the West, and had as a punishment for rebellion been deprived
of many of his estates, sold it to Lord Seymour. The Seymour family
built an imposing structure within the older part of the castle, but
never brought it to perfection. A fire, caused by lightning, so injured
the building in the early part of the eighteenth century that it was
abandoned to decay. Prince, the author of _The Worthies of Devon_,
describes the castle as very magnificent, and so vast “that it was a
good day’s work for a servant but to open and shut the casements.” It
is now, owing to the luxuriant setting of thick foliage and ivy and
its beautiful situation, one of the most picturesque of English ruins;
and it is interesting to observe the difference in architecture of its
composite parts. We advise you to apply for a photograph to Crauford’s
Library, Dartmouth; or Westley’s Library, Torquay.

ELLEN.—The sentence, “There is sorrow on the sea,” occurs in a verse of
the Bible—Jeremiah xlix. 23.

G. R. and MARY PRISCILLA CUNNINGHAM.—G. R. inquires for a “Practising
Society,” and Miss Cunningham writes at the same time to mention one,
so we commend our correspondents to each other. The “Honour Bright”
Practising Society encourages regular practice, awards prizes, and
levies fines. Address, for a copy of rules, the Secretary, Miss
Cunningham, 1, Bloemfontein Villas, Dalling Road, Hammersmith, W.
We may add for G. R.’s benefit that she will see other Practising
Societies mentioned if she scans this column for the past few months,
_e.g._, Mrs. Walker’s, Litlington Rectory, Berwick, Sussex, and Miss
Isabella Kent’s, Lay Rectory, Abington, Cambridge.

OPAL.—1. Your quotation is not correctly given. The verse—

    “It is the little rift within the lute
    That by and by will make the music mute,
    And ever widening, slowly silence all,”

will be found in Tennyson’s “Merlin and Vivien,” _Idylls of the
King_.—2. Eugene Field’s poems are published by Scribner’s Sons, New
York, and John Lane, London.

ANNE WEINHÄUPT (Innspruck).—1. We have a great many subscribers in
Austria, but must not give the exact numbers.—2. A “gooseberry-picker”
gathers a very thorny fruit for others to eat, having only the trouble
for his share. So a third person who accompanies a pair of lovers
for propriety’s sake has all the trouble and none of the pleasure of
the expedition. This at least is the explanation we have read of the
phrase, “to play goose-berry.” We may add that the expression is seldom
used nowadays. Many thanks for your kind letter.

K. K.—Your poems are far above the average of those we receive for
criticism. In the first verse of “Only” we should demur to the use of
the present tense “ends” for the sake of rhyme, in one instance. The
tense should be kept the same throughout one statement. In “Happiness,”
“best” and “happiness” do not rhyme. We thoroughly agree with the
sentiment of your concluding verse. We can quite understand that your
work has found acceptance for publication, but we have our own staff of
writers, and should not at present have use for your poems. Many thanks
for your good wishes.

“A DUTCH GIRL.”—As the author you admire is still living, there is no
biography published of her. Biographies, as a rule, are not compiled
until people are dead. Write to her publishers for any information you
desire, and they will give it to you if it is in accordance with her
wishes.

MILDRED.—You do not give us your address, so all we can advise you
to do is to write to the Secretary, Technical Education Board, St.
Martin’s Lane, London, W.C., inquiring for the nearest school where
you can study “black and white.” As to the length of the time it would
take you to learn to illustrate books, all depends on your previous
knowledge of drawing and natural capacity.

WINTON writes to tell CHEREA of an Early Rising Society; secretary,
Mrs. Eastes, 2, Church Hill, Walthamstow, Essex.

PINK.—We applaud your courage in wishing to learn Spanish, if your
hours of work are from 8 A.M. to 8.30 P.M. The _First Spanish Book_, by
A. M. Bower, is published at 2s. (actual cost, 1s. 6d.). There are also
Hossfield’s _New Method of Spanish_, and Sauer’s _Spanish Grammar_,
published at 3s. and 5s. (4s.) respectively. At any large second-hand
book-shop you would probably pick up a Spanish grammar for a few pence.

MAB.—An excellent book on the subject you name is _Woman’s Work and
Woman’s Culture_, edited by Mrs. Josephine Butler, and published by
Macmillan, but it is not new. Modern books are, _Pursuits of Women_,
by Frances Power Cobbe; _The Duties of Women_, by the same author;
_The Woman Question of Europe_, edited by Theodore Stanton; _Women in
English Life, from Mediæval to Modern Times_, by Georgina Hill, 2 vols.

JEANNE MÜLLER (France).—1. We can only advise you to write to some
registry office of good standing, saying what you wish to do. Address,
Société des Professeurs de Français en Angleterre, 20, Bedford Street,
Strand, London, W.C., or the Agency for Foreign Governesses and Home,
3, Colville Houses, Talbot Road, London, N., superintended by M. le
pasteur du Pontet de la Harpe, French Parsonage, Bayswater. It would
be very wise of you to come to England to perfect your knowledge of
English.—2. Apply to any English bookseller, _e.g._, Messrs. Sotheran,
Strand, London, for the books in question.

HILDE (Geneva).—1. We advise you also to write to a good agency; for
instance, Association of German Governesses in England, 16, Wyndham
Place, Bryanston Square, London, or Miss Hug’s Registry for Foreign
Governesses, 21, Baker Street, London, W., or the Army and Navy
Auxiliary, Francis Street, Westminster. You might also advertise in the
_Morning Post_. Have you no friends in England? Private inquiry is by
far the best way of finding a home on reciprocal terms. Can any reader
suggest one?—2. We are willing to tell SYBIL that you advise her to eat
three oranges a day, and LA PETITE that you recommend her to place her
pressed flowers in cotton wadding to preserve the colour.

A LOVER OF MUSIC.—As you truly observe, we cannot, without hearing you
play, judge as to the chances of your passing an examination. We advise
you to write to the Secretary, Trinity College, Mandeville Place,
Manchester Square, W., for details as to the standard of proficiency
required, etc. The fee is from 10s. 6d. upwards. We commend your
perseverance in practising without lessons.

AZZIE.—Thanks also for your reply to “WINTON.” We know of no cure for
the trouble you speak of but time, patience, and attention to the
general health.

MIDGET.—Your writing is too “scratchy,” and looks as though you wrote
with the edge of your pen, or too fine a nib. Try to form your letters
more accurately. We think it would do you good to practise copying some
model of handwriting. Thanks for your information.

GEISHA.—You had better consult Mrs. Watson’s articles on “Self-Culture
for Girls.” We will certainly criticise anything you send in six
months’ time. Have you ever thought of joining an essay club? We
occasionally mention such in our columns.

HELEN (A Constant Reader).—The inability to talk often arises from
shyness and nervousness, or fatigue after a hard day’s work may cause
you to relapse into silence. You can do a great deal to overcome the
habit by forcing yourself to express your thoughts. You must have many
things pass through your mind—recollections of the past, hopes for the
future—that people who care for you would be interested to hear; then
put them into language. Or take some special book or subject in which
you are interested, and talk about it. Do not be discouraged; it is
better to be quiet than to talk nonsense; and above all, never _try_ to
talk brilliantly. Simple and natural conversation will “come of itself”
in time.

DAFFODIL (Cork).—1. Your version of Wordsworth’s couplet—

    “The proud heart flashing through the eyes,
    At sound of Rob Roy’s name,”

is found in the best edition, Dr. Knight’s, in eight volumes, and in
Moxon’s 6-vol. edition. But in the small 1-vol. edition we read—

    “And kindle like a fire new stirred,
    At sound of Rob Roy’s name.”

Poets occasionally change the form of their work, but you can certainly
consider the first quoted is the more correct of the two renderings.—2.
Your writing is too large and childish for your age. Keep a regular
space between your lines; do not make the downstrokes black, and try
to reduce it all to a smaller uniform size. Some letters now are much
larger than others.


MEDICAL.

HAWTHORN.—The various fruit salts, effervescing salines, effervescing
citrate of magnesia, etc., are all pleasant modifications of seidlitz
powders. You could make one for yourself by mixing together bicarbonate
of soda, citric acid, tartaric acid, oxide of magnesia, and sugar.
Heat these ingredients carefully in an earthenware pot and stir until
the mass assumes a granular appearance. But why make it yourself?
You can buy it ready-made cheaply enough. It is only the patent
preparations which are expensive, for they have to pay for the stamp
and advertisements.

DARK DESPAIR.—We think most probably you did dislocate your jaw.
Such an accident always leaves behind it some stiffness and pain on
movement, but by exercising the joint these gradually disappear. A
small blister over the joint, occasionally, will help to relieve
the stiffness. Friction over the joint will also do good. But it is
exercise that is most essential and movement to the point of pain, for
the object of the movement is to break down adhesion within the joint,
and it is these adhesions that cause the pain and stiffness.

PORCUPINE.—1. Errors of the refraction of the eyes more often
cause squint than every other of its causes put together. And very
frequently, if the squint is slight or fairly recent, wearing
glasses will cure it. If it has gone further than this, an operation
is necessary.—2. Go to the dentist at once; your teeth want to be
thoroughly overhauled.

A FACTORY GIRL.—Phossy-jaw is a rare disease now, and we cannot
recollect ever having seen a case. It used to be fairly common, but the
stringent laws relating to match-workers have done much to stop the
disease. It is said that the phosphorus affects the jaw through decayed
teeth, and that if the teeth are perfect phossy-jaw does not occur.

ALABAMA.—Decidedly girls can suffer from gout. But recently we saw a
girl of seventeen who had typical acute gout in her great toe joint.
It certainly is not very common for it to show itself before middle
life, but it is not so uncommon as is usually supposed. Gout is far
more frequent in England than in any other country, but it is less
common than it used to be, possibly because port wine is drunk less
than it was formerly. A curious fact in connection with the heredity
of gout is, that gout and rheumatism often alternate in families; one
generation suffers from gout, the next from rheumatism, the third
from gout, etc. But more commonly gout is regularly hereditary. It is
considerably more common in men than in women.

A PERPLEXED GIRL.—Most probably your troubles are due to anæmia; the
stoutness and puffiness of the face, the flushings and high colour
of the cheeks, are very commonly met with in that condition. It by
no means follows that because the blood is deficient the cheeks will
be pale. The whites of the eyes, the inside of the lips, etc., will
be pale in anæmia, but it is almost as frequent to find the face
ruddy as pale. We therefore feel pretty confident that anæmia causes
your trouble; but whether that condition is simply the ordinary
“green-sickness” or due to some other cause we cannot say without
examining you. It is unnecessary for us to describe the treatment for
anæmia as we have done so, so frequently before.

INQUIRER.—There has just been another inquiry into the question of
the spread of infectious disease by oysters; and the very question
you ask us was discussed at length. Green oysters apparently belong
to three classes: firstly, those that are free from disease or from
metallic salts—these are perfectly healthy; secondly, those that owe
their green colour to salts of copper. It used to be thought that the
green colour of some oysters was due to iron salts, but the present
inquiry has proved beyond question that copper, and not iron, salts
cause the green colour. Thirdly, the most important group of all from
the medical standpoint, there are green oysters which owe their colour
to some disease of the blood. What disease is not known; nor do we know
if eating these oysters would injure the human body. Still, it is safer
to avoid eating green oysters at all. A very significant fact is that
in no single instance was the typhoid germ found in the oyster; and if
by chance the germ did get into the oyster it was speedily destroyed,
because it appears that fresh sea-water kills the bacillus altogether.
This last fact certainly is rather upsetting to the commonly-held view
that oysters can only become infected with typhoid germs by means of
sewers; indeed, the whole investigation casts doubt upon the opinion
that oysters can convey typhoid fever at all, but it by no means
disproves it.

ANXIOUS INQUIRER.—Discharge of matter from the ear is a condition
which requires very careful treatment, for it is one of those simple,
everyday affairs which not uncommonly lead to the most terrible
diseases. It is not in itself very dangerous, and if properly treated
scarcely ever ends in trouble, but the danger lies in neglect.
Discharge from the ear is always a very chronic affair, and though a
person may rigorously wash out her ears for a month or so, she begins
to doubt whether the syringing does any good. She gets careless, misses
a day or so, and eventually gives up treatment altogether. And then
may begin, by slow and insidious steps, or suddenly, in the course of
a few hours, one of those fearful diseases of which only a physician
can conceive the malignancy, diseases which, if unrelieved by prompt
surgery, end fatally without fail in a few days. But as we said before,
if the discharge from the ears is treated, the dangers of these
calamities is practically nothing. The treatment for the condition is
to syringe out the ears twice a day with a weak antiseptic. Condy’s
fluid diluted with warm water to the tint of pink blotting-paper will
do very well. It is also advisable to have your throat examined,
for chronic throat trouble is particularly likely to cause chronic
discharge from the ears.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: WE FOUR!

[_From photo: By C. Read, Wishaw._]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Transcriber’s Note—the following changes have been made to this text:

Page 661: Mondodelphum to Monodelphum—“ally to _L. Monodelphum_”.

Page 668: kimself to himself—“knew himself to be”.

lone to tone—“a very low tone.”

Page 669: musn’t to mustn’t—“mustn’t think that”.]






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Girl's Own Paper, Vol. XX, No.
1020, July 15, 1899, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GIRL'S OWN PAPER, JULY 15, 1899 ***

***** This file should be named 62074-0.txt or 62074-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/0/7/62074/

Produced by Susan Skinner, Chris Curnow, Pamela Patten and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
https://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

